1.	INTRODUCTION

1.1	Application

1.1.1	This Rulebook ("GEN") applies to every Person to whom the Financial Services and Markets Regulations 2015 ("FSMR") or Market Infrastructure Rules ("MIR") applies and to the same extent as those Regulations or Rules, except to the extent that a provision of GEN provides for a narrower application. This Rulebook does not apply to Remote Bodies. 

1.2	Overview of the Rulebook

1.2.Guidance
1.2.Guidance.1.	Chapter ‎2 sets out the Principles for Authorised Persons and Approved Persons.

1.2.Guidance.2.	Chapter ‎3 specifies the requirements upon senior management to implement effective systems and controls. There are also requirements upon the Authorised Person to apportion material responsibility among its senior management.

1.2.Guidance.3.	Chapter ‎4 contains mainly guidance in respect of interpretation of the Rulebook, emergency procedures, disclosure, the location of offices, Close Links, Complaints against the Regulator and the public records maintained by the Regulator in accordance with section 196 of the FSMR.

1.2.Guidance.4.	Chapter ‎5 specifies the Regulator's authorisation requirements for any applicant intending to become an Authorised Person, the threshold conditions required for such authorisation and requirements relating to Approved Persons.

1.2.Guidance.5.	Chapter ‎6 specifies, in relation to Authorised Persons and Recognised Bodies, the auditing and accounting requirements which deal with such matters as the appointment and termination of auditors, accounts and Regulatory Returns and the functions of an auditor. 

1.2.Guidance.6.	Chapter ‎7 prescribes the manner in which an Authorised Person must handle Complaints made against it by Retail Clients or Professional Clients.

1.2.Guidance.7.	Chapter ‎8 specifies the Regulator's supervisory requirements for any Authorised Person being regulated by the Regulator.

1.2.Guidance.8.	Chapter 9 specifies requirements relating to operators of Representative Offices and contains related guidance. 
	
2.	CORE PRINCIPLES

2.1	Principles for Authorised Persons – application

2.1.1.(1)	The twelve Principles for Authorised Persons, set out in Rule ‎2.2, apply subject to ‎(2) and ‎(3) to every Authorised Person in accordance with Rules ‎2.1.2 and ‎2.1.3.

2.1.1.(2)	The twelve Principles for Authorised Persons, set out in Rule ‎2.2, do not apply to an Authorised Person which is a Representative Office.

2.1.1.(3)	An Authorised Person which is a Credit Rating Agency does not have to comply with the Principles set out in Rules ‎2.2.6, ‎2.2.7, ‎2.2.8 and ‎2.2.9.
	
2.1.2.(1)	For the purposes of this Rule and Rule ‎2.1.3 the term 'Activities' means:
(a)	a Regulated Activity;
(b)	activities carried on in connection with a Regulated Activity;
(c)	activities held out as being for the purpose of a Regulated Activity; and
(d)	in relation to any particular Principle, any activity specified in ‎2.1.3(2), ‎(3) and ‎(4).

2.1.2.(2)	Principles 3 and 4 also apply in a Prudential Context to an Authorised Person with respect to the carrying on of all its Activities.

2.1.2.(3)	Principles 3 and 4 also take into account any Activities of other members of the Group of which the Authorised Person is a member.

2.1.2.(4)	Principles 10 and 11, to the extent that it relates to disclosing to the Regulator, also applies to an Authorised Person with respect to the carrying on of all its Activities, and takes into account any Activities of other members of the Group of which the Authorised Person is a member.

2.1.3.(1)	The Principles apply to an Authorised Person only with respect to Activities carried on from an establishment maintained by it in the ADGM, unless an extension in ‎(2), ‎(3), ‎(4) or ‎(5) applies.

2.1.3.(2)	Where another applicable Rule, which is relevant to the Activity, has a wider territorial scope than that in (1), any related Principle applies with that wider scope in relation to the Activity described in the Rule.

2.1.3.(3)	Principles 1, 2 and 3 apply in a Prudential Context to an Authorised Person with respect to Activities wherever they are carried on.

2.1.3.(4)	Principles 4 and 11 apply to an Authorised Person with respect to Activities wherever they are carried on.

2.1.3.(5)	Principle 5 also applies to an Authorised Person with respect to the Activities carried on in or from any place outside the ADGM if and to the extent that the Activities have, or might reasonably be regarded as likely to have, a negative effect on confidence in the ADGM Financial System.

2.1.3.Guidance

2.1.3.Guidance.1	The Principles for Authorised Persons have the status of Rules and are a general statement of fundamental regulatory requirements which apply alongside the other Rules and also in new or unforeseen situations which may not be covered elsewhere by a specific Rule. Rules in other areas of the Rulebook build upon these fundamental principles. Consequently the Rules and Guidance elsewhere in the Rulebook should not be seen as exhausting the implications of the Principles.

2.1.3.Guidance.2	Breaching a Principle for Authorised Persons makes an Authorised Person liable to disciplinary action, and may indicate that it is no longer fit and proper to carry on a Regulated Activity or to hold a Financial Services Permission and the Regulator may consider withdrawing authorisation or the Financial Services Permission on that basis.

2.1.3.Guidance.3	The onus will be on the Regulator to show that the Authorised Person has been at fault in some way, taking into account the standard of conduct required under the Principle in question.

2.2	The Principles for Authorised Persons

2.2.1	Principle 1   Integrity: An Authorised Person must observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing.

2.2.2	Principle 2   Due skill, care and diligence: In conducting its business activities, an Authorised Person must act with due skill, care and diligence.

2.2.3	Principle 3   Management, systems and controls: An Authorised Person must ensure that its affairs are managed effectively and responsibly by its senior management. An Authorised Person must have adequate systems and controls to ensure, as far as is reasonably practical, that it complies with the Regulations and Rules.

2.2.4	Principle 4   Resources: An Authorised Person must maintain and be able to demonstrate the existence of adequate resources to conduct and manage its affairs. These include adequate financial and system resources as well as adequate and competent human resources.

2.2.5	Principle 5   Market conduct: An Authorised Person must observe proper standards of conduct in the ADGM Financial System.

2.2.6	Principle 6   Information and interests: An Authorised Person must pay due regard to the interests of its Customers and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.

2.2.7	Principle 7   Conflicts of interest: An Authorised Person must take all reasonable steps to ensure that conflicts of interest between itself and its Customers, between its Employees and Customers and between one Customer and another are identified and then prevented or managed, or disclosed, in such a way that the interests of a Customer are not adversely affected.

2.2.8	Principle 8   Suitability: An Authorised Person must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its Advice and discretionary decisions for Customers who are entitled to rely upon its judgment.

2.2.9	Principle 9   Customer assets and money: Where an Authorised Person has control of or is otherwise responsible for assets or money belonging to a Customer which it is required to safeguard, it must arrange proper protection for them in accordance with the responsibility it has accepted.

2.2.10	Principle 10   Relations with Regulators: An Authorised Person must deal with Regulators in an open and co operative manner and keep the Regulator promptly informed of significant events or anything else relating to the Authorised Person of which the Regulator would reasonably expect to be notified.

2.2.11	Principle 11   Compliance with high standards of corporate governance: An Authorised Person must have a corporate governance framework as appropriate to the nature, scale and complexity of its business and structure, which is adequate to promote the sound and prudent management and oversight of the Authorised Person's business and to protect the interests of its Customers and stakeholders.

2.2.11.Guidance
2.2.11.Guidance.1	Corporate governance framework encompasses structural and procedural arrangements such as systems, policies and practices that are put in place to promote good governance and include the specific measures required under Rule ‎3.3.41.

2.2.12	Principle 12 – Remuneration practices: An Authorised Person must have a Remuneration structure and strategies which are well aligned with the long term interests of the Authorised Person, and are appropriate to the nature, scale and complexity of its business.

2.3	Principles for Approved Persons– application
2.3.1	The six Principles for Approved Persons set out in Rule ‎2.4 apply to every Approved Person and in respect of every Controlled Function.

2.3.1.Guidance
2.3.1.Guidance.1.	The Principles for Approved Persons do not apply to an Approved Person in respect of any other functions they may carry out, although their conduct in those functions may be relevant to their fitness and propriety. 

2.3.1.Guidance.2. 	Breaching a Principle for Approved Persons makes an Approved Person liable to disciplinary action and may indicate that they are no longer fit and proper to perform a Controlled Function, and the Regulator, may consider suspending or withdrawing Approved Person status on that basis.

2.3.1.Guidance.3.	In those circumstances, the onus is on the Regulator to show that the Approved Person is culpable, taking into account the standard of conduct required under the Principle in question. In determining whether or not the particular conduct of an Approved Person complies with the Principles for Approved Persons, the Regulator will take account of whether that conduct is consistent with the requirements and standards relevant to their Authorised Person, their own role and the information available to them.

2.3.1.Guidance.4.	An Approved Person breaching a Principle makes that person liable to disciplinary action and may indicate that they are no longer fit and proper to perform the related function; the Authorised Person should consider suspending or withdrawing their status as an Approved Person on that basis.

2.4	The Principles for Approved Persons 

2.4.1	Principle 1   Integrity: Each Approved Person must observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing in carrying out every Controlled Function.

2.4.2	Principle 2   Due skill, care and diligence: Each Approved Person must act with due skill, care and diligence in carrying out every Controlled Function.

2.4.3	Principle 3   Market conduct: Each Approved Person must observe proper standards of conduct in the ADGM Financial System in carrying out every Controlled Function.

2.4.4	Principle 4   Relations with the Regulator: Each Approved Person must deal with the Regulator in an open and co operative manner and must disclose appropriately any information of which the Regulator would reasonably be expected to be notified.

2.4.5	Principle 5   Management, systems and control: Each Approved Person who has significant responsibility must take reasonable care to ensure that the business of the Authorised Person for which they are responsible is organised so that it can be managed and controlled effectively.

2.4.6	Principle 6   Compliance: Each Approved Person who has significant responsibility must take reasonable care to ensure that the business of the Authorised Person for which they are responsible complies with any Regulations or Rules.
 
3.	MANAGEMENT, SYSTEMS AND CONTROLS

3.1	Application

3.1.1.(1)	This Chapter applies to every Authorised Person with respect to the Regulated Activities carried on in or from the ADGM.

3.1.1.(2)	It also applies in a Prudential Context to a Domestic Firm with respect to all its activities wherever they are carried on.

3.1.1.(3)	Rule ‎3.3 also applies to an Authorised Person in a Prudential Context with respect to its entire ADGM Branch's activities wherever they are carried on.

3.1.1.(4)	This Chapter does not apply to a Representative Office.

3.1.1.(5)	Rules 3.3.13, 3.3.14 and 3.3.15 do not apply to a Fund Manager of a Venture Capital Fund.

3.1.1.(5).Guidance

3.1.1.(5).Guidance.1.	The purpose of this Chapter is to set out the requirements for the Governing Body and the senior management within an Authorised Person who are to take direct responsibility for the Authorised Person’s arrangements on matters likely to be of interest to the Regulator wherever they may give rise to risks to the Regulator's objectives or they affect the Regulator's functions under the Regulations and Rules. See also the requirements relating to organisation in Rules ‎3.3.2 and ‎3.3.3.

3.1.1.(5).Guidance.2.	In relation to an Authorised Person which is a Fund Manager or the Trustee, this Chapter should be read in conjunction with FUNDS and construed to take into account any Fund which the Authorised Person operates or for which it acts as the Trustee.

3.1.1.(5).Guidance.3.	In relation to an Authorised Person which carries on Islamic Financial Business in or from the ADGM, this Chapter should be read in conjunction with IFR.

3.2	Allocation of significant responsibilities: Apportionment of significant responsibilities

3.2.1	An Authorised Person must apportion significant responsibilities between the members of its Governing Body and its senior management and maintain such apportionment in such a way that:
(1)	it meets the corporate governance requirements in Rule ‎3.3.41; 
(2)	it is appropriate with regard to:
(i)	the nature, scale and complexity of the business of the Authorised Person; and
(ii)	the ability and qualifications of the responsible individuals; 
(3)	it is clear who is responsible for which matters; and
(4)	the business of the Authorised Person can be adequately monitored and controlled by the Authorised Person’s Governing Body and senior management.

3.2.2	An Authorised Person must allocate to the Senior Executive Officer or to the individual holding equivalent responsibility for the conduct for the Authorised Person’s business or the Governing Body, the functions of:
(1)	dealing with the apportionment of responsibilities; and
(2)	overseeing the establishment and maintenance of systems and controls.

3.2.2.Guidance
3.2.2.Guidance.1.	Rules ‎3.2.1 and ‎3.2.2 do not derogate from the overall responsibility of the Governing Body in Rule ‎3.3.41(2).
Recording of apportionment

3.2.3.(1)	An Authorised Person must establish and maintain an up to date record of the arrangements it has made to comply with Rules ‎3.2.1 and ‎3.2.2.

3.2.3.(2)	The record must show that the members of the Governing Body and the senior management are aware of and have accepted the responsibilities apportioned in accordance with Rule ‎3.2.1.

3.2.3.(3)	Where a responsibility has been allocated to more than one individual, the record must show clearly how that responsibility is allocated between the individuals.

3.2.3.(4)	The record must be retained for six years from the date on which it was established or superseded by a more up to date record.

3.3	Systems and controls

3.3.1.(1)	General requirement: An Authorised Person must establish and maintain systems and controls, including but not limited to financial and risk systems and controls, that ensure that its affairs are managed effectively and responsibly by its senior management.

3.3.1.(2)	General requirement: An Authorised Person must undertake regular reviews of its systems and controls.

3.3.1.(2).Guidance

3.3.1.(2).Guidance.1.	The nature and extent of the systems and controls of an Authorised Person will depend upon a variety of factors including the nature, scale and complexity of its business. While all Authorised Persons, irrespective of the nature, scale, and complexity of their business and legal structure or organisation need to comply with this Chapter, the Regulator will take into account these factors and the differences that exist between Authorised Person when assessing the adequacy of an Authorised Person’s systems and controls. Nevertheless, neither these factors nor the differences relieve an Authorised Person from compliance with its regulatory obligations.


3.3.2.(1)	Organisation: An Authorised Person must establish and implement, taking due account of the nature, scale and complexity of its business and structure, adequate measures to ensure that:
(a)	the roles and responsibilities assigned to its Governing Body and the members of that body, senior management and Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions are clearly defined;
(b)	there are clear reporting lines applicable to the individuals undertaking those functions; and
(c)	the roles, responsibilities and reporting lines referred to in ‎(a) and ‎(b) are documented and communicated to all relevant Employees.

3.3.2.(2)	Organisation: An Authorised Person must ensure that any Employee who will be delivering Regulated Activities to its Customers is clearly identified, together with his respective lines of accountability and supervision.

3.3.2.(3)	Organisation: An Authorised Person which is conducting Investment Business or the Regulated Activities of Acting as the Administrator of a Collective Investment Fund or Providing Trust Services must ensure it makes publically available details of any Employee who delivers Regulated Activities to its Customers, by including such information:
(a)	in a register, maintained by the Authorised Person at its place of business and open for inspection during business hours; or
(b)	on the website of the Authorised Person.
(4)	An Authorised Person referred to in ‎(3), must have complete and up to date information on its register or website, including:
(a)	the date on which the relevant Employee commenced delivering of Regulated Activities to Customers; and
(b)	the Regulated Activities which that Employee is permitted by the Authorised Person to deliver to Customers.

3.3.2.(3).Guidance

3.3.2.(3).Guidance.1.	The term Employee is defined in the Glossary ("GLO") widely and includes members of the Governing Body or Directors and Senior Managers of the Authorised Person. Therefore, the requirements relating to Employees in Rules ‎3.3.19, ‎3.3.20, ‎3.3.21 and ‎3.3.42 apply to all Employees including those across the organisation.

3.3.2.(3).Guidance.2.	The division of responsibilities between the Governing Body and the senior management should be clearly established and set out in writing. In assigning duties, the Governing Body should take care that no one individual has unfettered powers in making material decisions.

3.3.2.(3).Guidance.3.	Members of the Governing Body may include individuals undertaking senior management functions (such as the chief executive of the firm) and Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions. In assigning specific functions to such individuals, care should be taken to ensure that the integrity and effectiveness of the functions they are to perform are not compromised. For example, if the chairperson of the Governing Body is also the chief executive officer of the Authorised Person, the Governing Body should ensure that the performance assessment of that individual in his roles should be undertaken by a senior non executive member of the Governing Body or a skilled person.

3.3.2.(3).Guidance.4.	Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions are defined in GLO in an inclusive manner to encompass Persons such as the heads of risk control, compliance and internal audit functions. In the case of an Insurer, the Actuary also is a Person who Undertakes a Key Control Function.

3.3.2.(3).Guidance.5.	An example of an Employee providing Regulated Activities to a Customer is a client relationship manager employed by an Authorised Person providing wealth management services. In contrast, an Employee who may be employed in the back office of an Authorised Person with responsibility for setting up Client Accounts would not be client facing.

3.3.3	Organisation: An Authorised Person must ensure that key duties and functions are segregated. Such segregation must ensure that the duties and functions to be performed by the same individual do not conflict with each other, thereby impairing the effective discharge of those functions by the relevant individuals (such as undetected errors or any abuse of positions) and thus exposing the Authorised Person or its Customers or users to inappropriate risks.


3.3.4	Risk management: An Authorised Person must establish and maintain risk management systems and controls to enable it to identify, assess, mitigate, control and monitor its risks.

3.3.5	Risk management: An Authorised Person must develop, implement and maintain policies and procedures to manage the risks to which the Authorised Person and where applicable, its Customers or users, are exposed.

3.3.6.(1)	An Authorised Person must appoint an individual to advise its Governing Body and senior management of such risks.

3.3.6.(2)	An Authorised Person which is part of a Group should be aware of the implications of any Group wide risk policy and systems and controls regime.


3.3.7	Compliance: An Authorised Person must establish and maintain compliance arrangements, including processes and procedures that ensure and evidence, as far as reasonably practicable, that the Authorised Person complies with all Regulations and Rules.

3.3.8	Compliance: An Authorised Person must document the organisation, responsibilities and procedures of the compliance function.

3.3.9	Compliance: An Authorised Person must ensure that the Compliance Officer has access to sufficient resources, including an adequate number of competent staff, to perform his duties objectively and independently of operational and business functions.

3.3.10	Compliance: An Authorised Person must ensure that the Compliance Officer has unrestricted access to relevant records and to the Authorised Person's Governing Body and senior management.

3.3.11	Compliance: An Authorised Person must establish and maintain monitoring and reporting processes and procedures to ensure that any compliance breaches are readily identified, reported and promptly acted upon.

3.3.12	Compliance: An Authorised Person must document the monitoring and reporting processes and procedures as well as keep records of breaches of any of Regulations and Rules.

3.3.13.(1)	Internal audit: An Authorised Person must establish and maintain an internal audit function with responsibility for monitoring the appropriateness and effectiveness of its systems and controls.

3.3.13.(2)	The internal audit function must be independent from operational and business functions.

3.3.14	Internal audit: An Authorised Person must ensure that its internal audit function has unrestricted access to all relevant records and recourse when needed to the Authorised Person's Governing Body or the relevant committee, established by its Governing Body for this purpose.

3.3.15	Internal audit: An Authorised Person must document the organisation, responsibilities and procedures of the internal audit function.

3.3.16.(1)	Business plan and strategy: An Authorised Person must produce a business plan which enables it, amongst other things, to manage the risks to which it and its Customers are exposed.

3.3.16.(2)	Business plan and strategy: The business plan must take into account the Authorised Person's current business activities and the business activities forecast for the next twelve months and, additionally, inform the IRAP and the ICAAP where the Authorised Person is required to undertake them under Chapter 10 of PRU.

3.3.16.(3)	Business plan and strategy: The business plan must be documented and updated as appropriate to take account of changes in the business environment and to reflect changes in and the complexities of the business of the Authorised Person. 
Management information

3.3.17	Management information: An Authorised Person must establish and maintain arrangements to provide its Governing Body and senior management with the information necessary to organise, monitor and control its activities, to comply with the Regulations and Rules and to manage risks. The information must be relevant, accurate, comprehensive, timely and reliable.

3.3.18	Staff and agents: An Authorised Person must establish and maintain systems and controls that enable it to satisfy itself of the suitability of anyone who acts for it.

3.3.19.(1)	Staff and agents: An Authorised Person must ensure, as far as reasonably practical, that its Employees are:
(a)	fit and proper;
(b)	competent and capable of performing the functions which are to be assigned to those Employees; and
(c)	trained in the requirements of the Regulations and Rules.
(2)	An Authorised Person must establish and maintain systems and controls to comply with ‎(1). An Authorised Person must be able to demonstrate that it has complied with these requirements through appropriate measures, including the maintenance of relevant records.

3.3.19.(1).Guidance

3.3.19.(1).Guidance.1.	When considering whether an Employee is fit and proper, competent and capable, an Authorised Person should consider any training undertaken or required by an Employee, the nature of the Clients to whom an Employee provides Regulated Activities, and the type of activities performed by an Employee in the provision of such Regulated Activities including any interface with Clients.

3.3.19.(1).Guidance.2.	When assessing the fitness and propriety of Employees, an Authorised Person should be guided by the matters set out in the GPM and should also monitor conflicts or potential conflicts of interest arising from all of the individual's links and activities.

3.3.19.(1).Guidance.3.	When assessing the competence and capability of an Employee, an Authorised Person should:
a.	obtain details of the skills, knowledge and experience of the Employee relevant to the nature and requirements of the role;
b.	take reasonable steps to verify the relevance, accuracy and authenticity of any information obtained;
c.	determine, in light of the Employee's relevant skills, knowledge and experience, that the Employee is competent and capable of fulfilling the duties of the role; and
d.	consider the level of responsibility that the Employee will assume within the Authorised Person, including whether the Employee will be providing Regulated Activities to Retail Clients in an interfacing role.

3.3.19.(1).Guidance.4.	An Authorised Person should also satisfy itself that an Employee:
a.	continues to be competent and capable of performing the role;
b.	has kept abreast of market, product, technology, legislative and regulatory developments that are relevant to the role, through training or other means; and
c.	is able to apply his knowledge.

3.3.19.(1).Guidance.5.	Refer to the GPM for criteria for suitability of members of the Governing Body of the Authorised Person.

3.3.20	Conduct: An Authorised Person must establish and maintain systems and controls that ensure, as far as reasonably practical, that the Authorised Person and its Employees do not engage in conduct, or facilitate others to engage in conduct, which may constitute:
(1)	market misconduct; or
(2)	a Financial Crime under any applicable U.A.E. laws.

3.3.21	Conflicts of Interest: An Authorised Person must comply with Principle 7 as outlined in Rule ‎2.2.7, taking all reasonable steps to identify conflicts of interest between:
(1)	the Authorised Person, including its managers, Employees and Clients, or any person directly or indirectly linked to them by control; or
(2)	one Client of the Authorised Person and another Client, 
that arises or may arise in the course of the Authorised Person providing any Regulated Activities.
 
3.3.22	Conflicts of Interest: For the purposes of identifying the types of conflict of interest that arise, or may arise, in the course of providing a service and whose existence may entail a material risk of damage to the interests of a Client, an Authorised Person must take into account, as a minimum, whether the Authorised Person or a person directly or indirectly linked by control to the Authorised Person:
(1)	is likely to make a financial gain, or avoid a financial loss, at the expense of the Client;
(2)	has an interest in the outcome of a service provided to the Client or of a Transaction carried out on behalf of the Client, which is distinct from the Client's interest in that outcome;
(3)	has a financial or other incentive to favour the interest of another Client or group of Clients over the interests of the Client; 
(4)	carries on the same business as the Client; or
(5)	receives or will receive from a person other than the Client an inducement in relation to a service provided to the Client, in the form of monies, goods or services, other than the standard Commission or Fee for that service.
 
3.3.23	Conflicts of Interest: If arrangements made by an Authorised Person to manage conflicts of interest in accordance with Principle 7 are not sufficient to ensure, with reasonable confidence, that risks of damage to the interests of a Client will be prevented, the Authorised Person must clearly disclose the general nature and/or sources of conflicts of interest to the Client before undertaking business for the Client. 

3.3.24	Conflicts of Interest: The disclosure in Rule ‎3.3.23 must:
(1)	be made in a durable medium; and
(2)	include sufficient detail, taking into account the nature of the Client, to enable that Client to take an informed decision with respect to the service in the context of which the conflict of interest arises.
   

3.3.25	Information barriers : When an Authorised Person establishes and Maintains an information barrier (that is, an arrangement that requires information held by an Authorised Person in the course of carrying on one part of the business to be withheld from, or not to be used for, persons with or for whom its acts in the course of carrying on another part of its business) it may:
(1)	withhold or not use the information held; and 
(2)	for that purpose, permit persons employed in the first part of its business to withhold the information held from those employed in that other part of the business, 
but only to the extent that the business of one of those parts involves the carrying on of Regulated Activities or ancillary activities.

3.3.26	Information barriers : Information may also be withheld or not used by an Authorised Person when this is required by an established arrangement Maintained between different parts of the business (of any kind) in the same group. This provision does not affect any requirement to transmit or use information that may arise apart from the rules in COBS. 

3.3.27	Information barriers : For the purposes of this Rule, "Maintains" includes taking reasonable steps to ensure that the arrangements remain effective and are adequately monitored, and must be interpreted accordingly. 

3.3.28	Information barriers : Acting in conformity with Rule ‎3.3.25 does not amount to Market Abuse. 

3.3.29	Information barriers : When any of the rules of COBS apply to an Authorised Person that acts with knowledge, the Authorised Person will not be taken to act with knowledge for the purposes of that rule if none of the relevant individuals involved on behalf of the Authorised Person acts with that knowledge as a result of arrangements established under Rule ‎3.3.25.

3.3.30	Information barriers : When an Authorised Person manages a conflict of interest using the arrangements in Rule ‎3.3.25 which take the form of an information barrier, individuals on the other side of the wall will not be regarded as being in possession of knowledge denied to them as a result of the information barrier.  
 
3.3.31.(1) 	Outsourcing: An Authorised Person which outsources any of its functions or activities directly related to Regulated Activities to service providers (including within its Group) is not relieved of its regulatory obligations and remains responsible for compliance with the Regulations and Rules.

3.3.31.(2)	Outsourcing: The outsourced function under this Rule shall be deemed as being carried out by the Authorised Person itself.

3.3.31.(3)	Outsourcing: An Authorised Person which uses such service providers must ensure that it:
(a)	has undertaken due diligence in choosing suitable service providers;
(b)	effectively supervises the outsourced functions or activities; and
(c)	deals effectively with any act or failure to act by the service provider that leads, or might lead, to a breach of any Regulations or Rules.

3.3.32.(1)	Outsourcing: An Authorised Person must inform the Regulator about any material outsourcing arrangements.

3.3.32.(2)	Outsourcing: An Authorised Person which has a material outsourcing arrangement must:
(a)	establish and maintain comprehensive outsourcing policies, contingency plans and outsourcing risk management programmes;
(b)	enter into an appropriate and written outsourcing contract; and
(c)	ensure that the outsourcing arrangements neither reduce its ability to fulfil its obligations to Customers and the Regulator, nor hinder supervision of the Authorised Person by the Regulator.

3.3.32.(3)	Outsourcing: An Authorised Person must ensure that the terms of its outsourcing contract with each service provider under a material outsourcing arrangement require the service provider to:
(a)	provide for the provision of information under Rule ‎8.1 in relation to the Authorised Person and access to their business premises; and
(b)	deal in an open and co operative way with the Regulator.

3.3.32.(3).Guidance

3.3.32.(3).Guidance.1.	An Authorised Person's outsourcing arrangements should include consideration of:
a.	applicable guiding principles for outsourcing in financial services issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, IOSCO or any other international body promulgating standards for outsourcing by Financial Institutions; or
b.	any equivalent principles or regulations the Authorised Person is subject to in its home country jurisdiction.

3.3.32.(3).Guidance.2.	An outsourcing arrangement would be considered to be material if it is a service of such importance that weakness or failure of that service would cast serious doubt on the Authorised Person's continuing ability to remain fit and proper or to comply with the Regulator's administered Regulations and Rules.


3.3.33.(1)	Business continuity and disaster recovery: An Authorised Person must have in place adequate arrangements to ensure that they can continue to function and meet their obligations under the Regulations and Rules in the event of an unforeseen interruption.

3.3.33.(2)	Business continuity and disaster recovery: These arrangements must be kept up to date and regularly tested to ensure their effectiveness.

3.3.33.(2).Guidance

3.3.33.(2).Guidance.1.	In considering the adequacy of an Authorised Person's business continuity arrangements, the Regulator will have regard to the Authorised Person’s management of the Specific Risks arising from interruptions to its business including its crisis management and disaster recovery plans.

3.3.33.(2).Guidance.2.	The Regulator expects an Authorised Person to have:
a.	arrangements which establish and maintain the Authorised Person's physical security and protection for its information systems for business continuity purposes in the event of planned or unplanned information system interruption or other events that impact on its operations;
b.	considered its primary data centres' and business operations' reliance on infrastructure components, for example transportation, telecommunications networks and utilities and made the necessary arrangements to minimise the risk of interruption to its operations by arranging backup of infrastructure components and service providers; and
c.	considered, in its plans for dealing with a major interruption to its primary data centre or business operations, its alternative data centres' and business operations' reliance on infrastructure components and made the necessary arrangements such that these do not rely on the same infrastructure components and the same service provider as the primary data centres and operations.

3.3.34.(1)	Records: An Authorised Person must make and retain records of matters and dealings, including Accounting Records and corporate governance practices which are the subject of requirements and standards under the Regulations and Rules.

3.3.34.(2)	Records: Such records, however stored, must be capable of reproduction on paper within a reasonable period not exceeding three Business Days.

3.3.35	Records: Subject to Rule ‎3.3.36, the records required by Rule ‎3.3.34 or by any other Rule in this Rulebook must be maintained by the Authorised Person in the English language.

3.3.36	Records: If an Authorised Person’s records relate to business carried on from an establishment in a country or territory outside the ADGM, an official language of that country or territory may be used instead of the English language as required by Rule ‎3.3.35.

3.3.37	Records: An Authorised Person must have systems and controls to fulfil the Authorised Person's legal and regulatory obligations with respect to adequacy, access, period of retention and security of records.


3.3.38	Fraud and other Financial Crimes: An Authorised Person must establish and maintain effective systems and controls to:
(1)	deter and prevent suspected fraud and other Financial Crimes against the Authorised Person and its Customers; and
(2)	report suspected fraud and other Financial Crimes to the relevant authorities.

3.3.39	Fraud and other Financial Crimes: An Authorised Person must ensure that the systems and controls established and maintained in accordance with Rule ‎3.3.38:
(1)	enable it to identify, assess, monitor and manage Financial Crime risks; and
(2)	are comprehensive and proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of its activities. 

3.3.40	Fraud and other Financial Crimes: In identifying its exposure to risks arising from fraud and other Financial Crimes and implementing the necessary systems and controls to manage and reduce those risks, an Authorised Person must consider a range of factors, including:
(1)	its Customer, product and activity profiles; 
(2)	its distribution channels; 
(3)	the complexity and volume of its Transactions; 
(4)	its processes and systems; and
(5)	its operating environment.

3.3.40.Guidance
3.3.40.Guidance	An Authorised Person should observe best practices when establishing the systems and controls required under Rule 3.3.38, given the evolving nature of Financial Crime. Such practices may include, but are not limited to, incorporating secure authentication, biometrics and the monitoring of customer behaviour metrics into anti-fraud and anti-Financial Crime systems and controls.


3.3.41.(1)	Corporate Governance: An Authorised Person must have a Governing Body and senior management that meet the requirements in ‎(2) and ‎(3) respectively.

3.3.41.(2)	Corporate Governance: The Governing Body of the Authorised Person must:
(a)	be clearly responsible for setting or approving (or both) the business objectives of the Authorised Person and the strategies for achieving those objectives and for providing effective oversight of the management of the Authorised Person;
(b)	comprise an adequate number and mix of individuals who have, among them, the relevant knowledge, skills, expertise and time commitment necessary to effectively carry out the duties and functions of the Governing Body; and
(c)	have adequate powers and resources, including its own governance practices and procedures, to enable it to discharge those duties and functions effectively.

3.3.41.(3)	Corporate Governance:The senior management of the Authorised Person must be clearly responsible for the day to day management of the Authorised Person's business in accordance with the business objectives and strategies approved or set by the Governing Body.

3.3.41.(3).Guidance	
3.3.41.(3).Guidance.1	Scope of corporate governance
1.	Corporate governance is a framework of systems, policies, procedures and controls through which an entity:
a.	promotes the sound and prudent management of its business;
b.	protects the interests of its Customers and stakeholders; and
c.	places clear responsibility for achieving Rule ‎3.3.41(2)(a) and ‎(3) on the Governing Body and its members and the senior management of the Authorised Person.

3.3.41.(3).Guidance.2.	Many requirements designed to ensure sound corporate governance of companies, such as those relating to shareholder and minority protection and responsibilities of the Board of Directors of companies, are found in the company laws and apply to Authorised Persons. Additional disclosure requirements also apply if they are listed companies. The requirements in this Rulebook are tailored to Authorised Persons and are designed to augment and not to exclude the application of those requirements.

3.3.41.(3).Guidance.3.	Whilst Rule ‎3.3.41 deals with two aspects of corporate governance, the requirements included in other provisions under Rules ‎3.2 and ‎3.3 also go to the heart of sound corporate governance by promoting prudent and sound management of the Authorised Person’s business in the interest of its Customers and stakeholders. These requirements together are designed to promote sound corporate governance practices in Authorised Persons whilst also providing a greater degree of flexibility for Authorised Persons in establishing and implementing a corporate governance framework that are both appropriate and practicable to suit their operations.

3.3.41.(3).Guidance.4.	Stakeholder groups of an Authorised Person, who would benefit from the sound and prudent management of Authorised Persons, can be varied but generally encompass its owners (e.g. its shareholders), Customers, creditors, Counterparties and Employees, whose interests may not necessarily be mutually coextensive. A key objective in enhancing corporate governance standards applicable to Authorised Persons is to ensure that they are soundly and prudently managed, with the primary regard being had to its Customers.

3.3.41.(3).Guidance.5.	Proportionate application to Authorised Persons depending on the nature of their business: One of the key considerations that underpins how the corporate governance requirements set out in Rule ‎3.3.41 apply to an Authorised Person is the nature, scale and complexity of the Authorised Person's business, and its organisational structure.

3.3.41.(3).Guidance.6.	While requiring Banks, Insurers and dealers to have more detailed and complex corporate governance systems and controls, simpler systems and procedures could be required for other Authorised Persons, depending on the nature and scale of their Regulated Activities. For example, in the case of certain types of Category 4 Regulated Activity providers such as arranging or advising only Authorised Persons, less extensive and simpler corporate governance systems and procedures may be sufficient to meet their corporate governance obligations.

3.3.41.(3).Guidance.7.	For example, an Authorised Person which is a small scale operation with a tightly held ownership structure may not have a Governing Body which comprises members who are fully independent of the Authorised Person's business and from each other, nor be sufficiently large to be able to form numerous committees of the Governing Body to undertake various functions such as nomination and Remuneration. In such cases, whilst strict adherence to such aspects of best practice would not be required, overall measures as appropriate to achieve the sound and prudent management of the business would be needed. For example, an Authorised Person with no regulatory track record would be expected to have additional corporate governance controls in place to ensure the sound and prudent management of its business, such as the appointment of an independent Director (who has relevant regulatory experience) to its Governing Body.

3.3.41.(3).Guidance.8.	Application to Branches and Groups: As part of the flexible and proportionate application of corporate governance standards to Authorised Persons, whether an Authorised Person is a Branch or a Subsidiary within a Group is also taken into account. An Authorised Person which is a member of a Group may, instead of developing its own corporate governance policies, adopt Group wide corporate governance standards. However, the Governing Body of the Authorised Person should consider whether those standards are appropriate for the Authorised Person, and to the extent possible, make any changes as necessary.

3.3.41.(3).Guidance.9.	Application to Branches and Groups: In the case of a Branch, corporate governance practices adopted at the head office would generally apply to the Branch and are expected to be adequate. The Regulator considers, as part of its authorisation of a Branch and on going supervision, the adequacy of regulatory and supervisory arrangements applicable in the home jurisdiction, including a corporate governance framework adopted and implemented by the head office (see the GPM).

3.3.41.(3).Guidance.10.	Best practice relating to corporate governance: In addition to the considerations noted above, best practice that an Authorised Person may adopt to achieve compliance with the applicable corporate governance standards is set out in Guidance at Appendix ‎1.1. An Authorised Person may, where the best practice set out in Appendix ‎1.1 is not suited to its particular business or structure, deviate from such best practice or any aspects thereof. The Regulator will expect the Authorised Person to demonstrate to the Regulator, upon request, what the deviations are and why such deviations are considered by the Authorised Person to be appropriate.


3.3.42.(1)	Remuneration structure and strategies: The Governing Body of an Authorised Person must ensure that the Remuneration structure and strategy of that Authorised Person:
(a)	are consistent with the business objectives and strategies and the identified risk parameters within which the Authorised Person's business is to be conducted;
(b)	provide for effective alignment of risk outcomes and the roles and functions of the Employees, taking account of:
(i)	the nature of the roles and functions of the relevant Employees; and
(ii)	whether the actions of the Employees may expose the Authorised Person to unacceptable financial, reputational and other risks;
(c)	at a minimum, include the members of its Governing Body, the senior management, Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions and any Major Risk Taking Employees; and
(d)	are implemented and monitored to ensure that they operate, on an on going basis, effectively and as intended.

3.3.42.(2)	Remuneration structure and strategies: The Governing Body must provide to the Regulator and relevant stakeholders sufficient information about its Remuneration structure and strategies to demonstrate that such structure and strategies meet the requirements in ‎(1) on an on going basis.

3.3.42.(3)	Remuneration structure and strategies: For the purposes of this Rule, "Major Risk Taking Employees" are Employees whose actions have a material impact on the risk exposure of the Authorised Person.

3.3.42.(3).Guidance

3.3.42.(3).Guidance.1.	Proportionate application to Authorised Persons depending on the nature of their business: Those considerations set out in Guidance items 5 – 7 under Rule ‎3.3.41 apply equally to the way in which the Remuneration structure and strategies related requirement in Rule ‎3.3.42 is designed to apply to an Authorised Person. Accordingly, whilst most Category 4 Authorised Persons may have simple arrangements to achieve the outcome of aligning performance outcomes and risks associated with Remuneration structure and strategies, Banks, Insurers and dealers are expected to have more stringent measures to address such risks.


3.3.42.(3).Guidance.2.	Application to Branches and Groups: As part of the flexible and proportionate application of corporate governance standards to Authorised Persons, whether an Authorised Person is a Branch or a Subsidiary within a Group is also taken into account. As such, the considerations noted in Guidance items 8 – 9 under Rule ‎3.3.41 apply equally to the application of the Remuneration related requirements for Branches and Groups. For example, where an Authorised Person is a member of a Group, its Governing Body should consider whether the Group wide policies, such as those relating to the Employees covered under the Remuneration strategy and the disclosure relating to Remuneration made at the Group level are adequate to meet its obligations under Rule ‎3.3.42.


3.3.42.(3).Guidance.3.	Best practice relating to corporate governance:In addition to the considerations noted above, best practice that an Authorised Person may adopt to promote sound Remuneration structure and strategies within the Authorised Person is set out as Guidance at Appendix ‎1.2. Where such best practice or any aspects thereof are not suited to a particular Authorised Person's business or structure, it may deviate from such best practice. The Regulator will expect the Authorised Person to demonstrate, upon request, what the deviations are and why such deviations are considered appropriate.

3.3.42.(3).Guidance.4.	Disclosure of information relating to Remuneration structure and strategy: The information which an Authorised Person provides to the Regulator relating to its Remuneration structure and strategies should be included in the annual report or accounting statements. The Regulator expects the annual report of Authorised Persons to include, at a minimum, information relating to:
a.	the decision making process used to determine the Authorised Person wide Remuneration policy (such as by a Remuneration committee or an external consultant if any, or by the Governing Body);
b.	the most important elements of its Remuneration structure (such as, in the case of performance based Remuneration, the link between pay and performance and the relevant assessment criteria); and
c.	aggregate quantitative information on Remuneration of its Governing Body, the senior management, Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions and any Major Risk-Taking Employees.

3.3.42.(3).Guidance.5.	isclosure of information relating to Remuneration structure and strategy: The Regulator may, pursuant to its supervisory powers, require additional information relating to the Remuneration structure and strategy of an Authorised Person to assess whether the general elements relating to Remuneration under Rule ‎3.3.42(1) are met by the Authorised Person. Any significant changes to the Remuneration structure and strategy should also be notified to the Regulator before being implemented.

3.3.42.(3).Guidance.6.	isclosure of information relating to Remuneration structure and strategy: The information included in the annual report is made available to the Regulator and the shareholders, and in the case of a listed company, to the public. The Governing Body of the Authorised Person should also consider what additional information should be included in the annual report. In the case of Banks, Insurers and dealers, more detailed disclosure of Remuneration structure and strategy and its impact on the financial soundness of the Authorised Person would be required. When providing disclosure relating to Remuneration in its annual report, Authorised Persons should take account of the legal obligations that apply to them including the confidentiality of information obligations.

4.	GENERAL PROVISIONS

4.1	Application

4.1.1	
4.1.1.(1)	Rules ‎‎4.2 and ‎4.8 apply to every Person to whom any provision in the Rulebook applies.
4.1.1.(2)	Rules 4.3 and ‎4.4 apply to every Authorised Person and Recognised Body.
4.1.1.(3)	Rules ‎4.5 and ‎4.6 apply to every Authorised Person, Recognised Body and Person who has submitted an application for authorisation to carry on one or more Regulated Activities.
4.1.1.(4)	Rule ‎4.7 applies to the Regulator.
4.1.1.(5)	This Chapter does not apply to a Representative Office.

4.2	Interpreting the Rulebook

4.2.Guidance	

4.2.Guidance.Interpretation	

4.2.Guidance.1.	Interpretation: Every provision in the Rulebook must be interpreted in the light of its purpose. The purpose of any provision is to be gathered first and foremost from the text of the provision in question and its context among other relevant provisions.

4.2.Guidance.2.	Interpretation: When this Rule refers to a provision, this means every type of provision, including Rules and Guidance.

4.2.Guidance.3.	Interpretation: Where reference is made in the Rulebook to another provision of the Rulebook or other Regulations and Rules, it is a reference to that provision as amended from time to time.

4.2.Guidance.4.	Interpretation: Unless the contrary intention appears:
a.	words in the Rulebook importing the masculine gender include the feminine gender and words importing the feminine gender include the masculine; and
b.	words in the Rulebook in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular.

4.2.Guidance.5.	Interpretation: If a provision in the Rulebook refers to a communication, notice, agreement, or other Document 'in writing' then, unless the contrary intention appears, it means in legible form and capable of being reproduced on paper, irrespective of the medium used. Expressions related to writing must be interpreted accordingly.

4.2.Guidance.6.	Interpretation: Any reference to 'dollars' or '$' is a reference to United States Dollars unless the contrary intention appears.

4.2.Guidance.7.	Interpretation: References to sections made throughout the Rulebook are references to sections in the FSMR unless otherwise stated.

4.2.Guidance.8.	Interpretation: If an obligation falls on a calendar day which is not a Business Day, the obligation must take place on the next calendar day which is a Business Day.

4.2.Guidance.9.	Defined Terms: Defined terms are identified throughout the Rulebook by the capitalisation of the initial letter of a word or of each word in a phrase and are defined in GLO, however, where a word or phrase is used only in a prudential context in PRU then for convenience purposes it is also defined under Rule 1.2.1 of PRU. Unless the context otherwise requires, where capitalisation of the initial letter is not used, an expression has its natural meaning.

4.3	Emergency

4.3.1.	

4.3.1.(1)	If an Authorised Person or Recognised Body is unable to comply with a particular Rule due to an emergency which is outside its or its Employees' control and could not have been avoided by taking all reasonable steps, the Authorised Person or Recognised Body will not be in Contravention of that Rule to the extent that, in consequence of the emergency, compliance with that Rule is impractical.

4.3.1.(2)	This Rule applies only for so long as the consequences of the emergency continue and the Authorised Person or Recognised Body is able demonstrate that it is taking all practical steps to deal with those consequences, to comply with the Rule, and to mitigate losses and potential losses to its Customers or users.

4.3.1.(3)	An Authorised Person or Recognised Body must notify the Regulator as soon as practical of the emergency and of the steps it is taking and proposes to take to deal with the consequences of the emergency.

4.3.1.Guidance

4.3.1.Guidance.1	Procedures for notification to the Regulator are set out in Rule ‎8.11.

4.3.1.Guidance2.	The provisions in Rule ‎4.3.1 do not affect the powers of the Regulator under section 1(1) and (2) of the FSMR.

4.4	Disclosure of regulatory status

4.4.1	Neither an Authorised Person nor a Recognised Body must misrepresent its status expressly or by implication.

4.4.1.(1)	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must take reasonable care to ensure that every key business Document which is made available to third parties in connection with the Authorised Person or Recognised Body carrying on a Regulated Activity, or activity set out under a Recognition Order, in or from the ADGM includes one of the disclosures under this Rule.
4.4.1.(2)	A key business Document includes letterhead whether issued by post, fax or electronic means, terms of business, Client Agreements, written promotional materials, business cards, Prospectuses and websites but does not include compliment slips, account statements or text messages.
4.4.1.(3)	The disclosure required under this Rule is: 'Regulated by the ADGM Financial Services Regulatory Authority'.
4.4.1.(4)	The Regulator's logo must not be reproduced without express written permission from the Regulator and in accordance with any conditions for use.
4.4.1.(5)	Rules ‎4.4.1(1) to ‎(4) also apply to the operation and administration of an Official List of Securities by a Recognised Body.

4.5	Location of offices
4.5.1.(1) 	Where an Authorised Person, a Recognised Body or a Person who has submitted an application for authorisation to carry on one or more Regulated Activities, or activities set out under a Recognition Order, is a Body Corporate incorporated in the ADGM, its head office and registered office must be in the ADGM.
4.5.1.(2)	Where an Authorised Person, a Recognised Body or a Person who has submitted an application for authorisation to carry on one or more Regulated Activities, is a Partnership established under the Limited Liability Partnership Regulations 2015 or the Partnership Act 1890, its head office must be in the ADGM.

4.5.1.Guidance
4.5.1.Guidance.1.	In considering the location of an Authorised Person or Recognised Body's head office, the Regulator will have regard to the location of its Directors, partners and senior management and to the main location of its day to day operational, control, management and administrative arrangements and will judge matters on a case by case basis.
4.5.1.Guidance.2.	Under the fit and proper test for Authorised Persons or the Recognition Requirements for Recognised Bodies, an Authorised Person or Recognised Body which does not satisfy the Regulator with respect to the location of its offices will, on this point alone not be considered fit and proper or able to satisfy the Recognition Requirements.

4.6	Close Links
4.6.1.(1)	Where an Authorised Person, Recognised Body or a Person who has submitted an application for authorisation to carry on one or more Regulated Activities has Close Links with another Person, the Regulator must be satisfied that those Close Links are not likely to prevent the effective supervision by the Regulator of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body.
4.6.1.(2)	In assessing whether the Close Links between an Authorised Person, Recognised body or a Person who has submitted an application under ‎(1), with another person will not prevent the effective supervision by the Regulator of that Authorised Person, Recognised Body or Person, the Regulator will consider:
(a)	the nature of the relationship between the Authorised Person, Recognised Body or Person and the person with whom they have Close Links;
(b)	whether those Close Links are, or that relationship is, likely to prevent the Regulator's effective supervision of the Authorised Person, Recognised Body or Person; and
(c)	if the person with whom the Authorised Person, Recognised Body or Person has Close Links is subject to the laws, regulations or administrative provisions of a country, territory or jurisdiction other than the ADGM, (the "Foreign Provisions"), whether those Foreign Provisions, or any deficiency in their enforcement, would prevent the Regulator's effective supervision of the Authorised Person, Recognised Body or Person.
4.6.1.(3)	If requested by the Regulator the Authorised Person or Recognised Body must submit a Close Links report or notification, in a form specified by the Regulator. This may be requested on an ad hoc or periodic basis.

4.6.1.Guidance
4.6.1.Guidance.1.	Procedures for notification to the Regulator are set out in Rule ‎8.11.
4.6.1.Guidance.2.	Under the fit and proper test for Authorised Persons and the requirements for a Financial Services Permission to be granted to Recognised Bodies, an Authorised Person or Recognised Body which does not satisfy the Regulator with respect of its Close Links will, on this point alone, not be considered fit and proper or able to satisfy the Recognition Requirements.

4.7	Public records

4.7.1	Maintenance and publication: The records required to be maintained and published by the Regulator pursuant to section 196 of the FSMR shall be published and maintained in either or both of the following manners:
(1)	by maintaining hard copy records which are made available for inspection at the premises of the Regulator during normal business hours; or
(2)	by maintaining an electronic version of the records and making the information from those records available through the Regulator's website.

4.8	Communication with the Regulator
4.8.1	An Authorised Person and Recognised Body must ensure that any communication with the Regulator is conducted in the English language.

5.	AUTHORISATION AND THRESHOLD CONDITIONS 
5.1	Application
5.1.1	
5.1.1.(1) 	This Chapter applies, subject to ‎(2), to every Person that is: 
(a)	an Authorised Person;
(b)	an applicant for a Financial Services Permission; 
(c)	an Approved Person;
(d)	an applicant for Approved Person status; or
(e)	a Controller of a Person referred to in ‎(a) or ‎(b). 
(2)	This Chapter does not apply to Recognised Bodies or operators of a Representative Office.
(3)	Upon the granting of a Financial Services Permission to an applicant, such applicant will be required to satisfy the requirements of the provisions in this Chapter on an on-going basis.
5.1.1.Guidance	
5.1.1.Guidance.1.	This Chapter outlines the authorisation requirements for Authorised Persons and Approved Persons.
5.1.1.Guidance.2.	The Regulator's requirements for authorisation of:
a.	Recognised Bodies are covered by MIR; and
b.	Representative Offices are covered by Chapter ‎9.
5.1.1.Guidance.3.	This Chapter should be read in conjunction with the GPM which sets out the Regulator's general regulatory policy and processes. Some additional processes may be outlined in other Chapters of this Rulebook.
5.1.1.Guidance.4.	The GPM sets out the Regulator's approach to the authorisation of Undertakings and individuals to conduct Regulated Activities or Controlled Functions, as the case may be.

5.2	Application for a Financial Services Permission
5.2.1	A Person who intends to carry on one or more Regulated Activities in or from the ADGM must apply to the Regulator for a Financial Services Permission, in accordance with the provisions in this Rule. Where the Person becomes aware of a material change in circumstances that is reasonably likely to be relevant to such an application whilst it is under consideration by the Regulator, then it must inform the Regulator in writing of the change without delay. 
5.2.2.(1)	The Regulator will only consider an application for a Financial Services Permission from a Person who, subject to ‎(2), ‎(3) and ‎(4), is:
(a)	a Body Corporate; or
(b)	a Partnership;
and who is not a Recognised Body.
5.2.2.(2)	If the application is in respect of either or both of the following Regulated Activities:
(a)	Effecting Contracts of Insurance; or
(b)	Carrying Out Contracts of Insurance as Principal;
the applicant must be a Body Corporate.
5.2.2.(3)	If the application is in respect of the Regulated Activity of Accepting Deposits, the applicant must be a Body Corporate or a Partnership.
5.2.2.(4)	If the application is in respect of the Regulated Activity of Acting as the Trustee of an Investment Trust, the applicant must be a Body Corporate.
5.2.2.Guidance	The GPM sets out matters which the Regulator takes into consideration when making an assessment under Rule ‎5.2.2.

5.2.3	Carrying on service with or for a Retail Client: The following requirements must be met by an Authorised Person applying for a Financial Services Permission to carry on a Regulated Activity with or for a Retail Client:
(1)	the applicant must have adequate systems and controls for carrying on Regulated Activities with or for a Retail Client;
(2)	the applicant must have adequate systems and controls (including policies and procedures) to ensure compliance with the requirements in COBS relevant to Retail Clients;
(3)	the applicant must have adequate systems and controls to ensure that its Employees remain competent and capable to perform the functions which are assigned to them, in particular, functions that involve dealing with Retail Clients; and
(4)	the applicant must have adequate Complaints handling policies and procedures.


5.2.4	Acting as a Trade Repository: The requirements in Appendix ‎2 must be met by an Authorised Person whose Financial Services Permission, or Recognised Body whose Recognition Order, includes a designation permitting the Authorised Person or Recognised Body to maintain a Trade Repository.
5.2.4.Guidance	
5.2.4.Guidance.1.	Maintaining a Trade Repository is not a separate Regulated Activity but may be carried on by an Authorised Person or Recognised Body which has a Financial Services Permission, or Recognition Order with a designation permitting it to do so. An Authorised Person or Recognised Body maintaining a Trade Repository is subject to some specific requirements relating to that activity, which are set out in Appendix ‎2.
5.2.4.Guidance.2.	The functions of a Trade Repository promote increased transparency and integrity of information, particularly for centrally cleared OTC Derivatives. Transaction reporting requirements in the ADGM exist in section 146 of the FSMR which require reporting to Trade Repositories. These requirements are yet to be triggered by the Regulator.
5.2.4.Guidance.3.	An Authorised Person or Recognised Body does not carry on the activities of a Trade Repository to the extent that it maintains records of transactions pursuant to the record keeping requirements applicable to that Authorised Person or Recognised Body (such as those relating to transactions carried out on behalf of the Authorised Person’s Clients, or transactions carried out on the facilities of a Recognised Body). 

5.2.5	Persons Licensed by the Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority: A Person licensed by the Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority to trade on an U.A.E. exchange will not be granted a Financial Services Permission by the Regulator unless that Person has the prior approval of the Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority.
5.2.6	Persons Licensed by the Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority: A Person applying for a Financial Services Permission must make an application in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe.

5.2.6.Guidance	A Person submitting an application under Rule ‎5.2.6 is required to:
a.	pay the appropriate application fee as set out in FEES; and
b.	include information relating to its Controllers, completed by the relevant Controllers themselves, in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe.

5.2.7	Consideration and assessment of applications: In order to become authorised to carry on one or more Regulated Activities, the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Regulator that it:
(1)	has adequate and appropriate resources, including financial resources; 
(2)	is fit and proper; 
(3)	is capable of being effectively supervised; and
(4)	has adequate compliance arrangements, including policies and procedures, that will enable it to comply with all the applicable legal requirements, including the Rules.


5.2.8	Adequate and appropriate resources
5.2.8.(1)	In assessing whether an applicant has adequate and appropriate financial resources, the Regulator will consider:
(a)	how the applicant will comply with the applicable provisions of PRU, COBS and PIN;
(b)	the provision the applicant makes, or, if the applicant is a member of a Group, which other members of the Group make, in respect of any liabilities, including contingent and future liabilities;
(c)	the means by which the applicant or, if the applicant is a member of a Group, by which other members of the Group manage the incidence of risk in connection with their business; 
(d)	the rationale for, and basis of, the applicant's business plan; 
(e)	whether the applicant's assets are appropriate given the applicant's liabilities; 
(f)	the liquidity of the applicant's financial resources; 
(g)	the nature and scale of the business which will be carried on by the applicant;
(h)	the risks to the continuity of the services which will be provided by the applicant; 
(i)	the applicant's membership of a Group and any effect which that membership may have; and
(j)	whether the applicant is capable of meeting its debts as they fall due. 
5.2.8.(2)	In assessing whether an applicant has adequate and appropriate non-financial resources, the Regulator will consider:
(a)	the skills and experience of those who will manage the applicant's affairs; 
(b)	the applicant's willingness and ability to value its assets and liabilities and its resources to identify, monitor, measure and take action to remove or reduce risks as to the accuracy of such valuation;
(c)	the applicant's resources to identify, monitor, measure and take action to remove or reduce risks as to its safety and soundness; 
(d)	the effectiveness of the applicant's business management; and 
(e)	whether the applicant's non-financial resources are sufficient to enable the applicant to comply with:
(i)	requirements imposed or likely to be imposed on the applicant by the Regulator in the exercise of its functions; or
(ii)	any other requirement in relation to whose Contravention the Regulator would be concerned for the purpose of any provision of Part 19 of the FSMR. 
5.2.8.(2).Guidance
5.2.8.(2).Guidance.1.	A Credit Rating Agency is not subject to PRU including capital requirements.
5.2.8.(2).Guidance.2.	A Fund Manager of a Venture Capital Fund is not subject to PRU except 6.12 (professional indemnity insurance). 
5.2.8.(2).Guidance.3.	However both are required, pursuant to GEN Rules 2.2.4 and 5.2.8, to have and maintain adequate financial resources to manage its affairs prudently and soundly.


5.2.9	Fitness and propriety
5.2.9.(1)	In assessing whether an applicant is fit and proper, the Regulator will consider:
(a)	the fitness and propriety of the members of its Governing Body;
(b)	the applicant's connection with any person or membership of any Group;
(c)	the suitability of the applicant's Controllers or any other Person;
(d)	the impact a Controller might have on the applicant's ability to comply with the applicable requirements;
(e)	the Regulated Activities concerned and the risks to their continuity;
(f)	the nature (including the scale and complexity) of the activities of the applicant and any associated risks that those activities pose to the Regulator's objectives described under section 1(3) of the FSMR;
(g)	whether the applicant's business model will allow for its affairs and business to be conducted and managed in a sound and prudent manner, having regard in particular to the interests of consumers and the integrity of the ADGM;
(h)	whether those who manage the applicant's affairs in accordance with ‎(g) will have adequate skills and experience and will act with probity; 
(i)	any matter which may harm or may have harmed the integrity or the reputation of the Regulator or ADGM, including through the carrying on of a business by the applicant for a purpose connected with a Financial Crime; and
(j)	any other relevant matters.
5.2.9.(2)	The Regulator will, in assessing the matters in (1), consider the cumulative effect of factors which, if taken individually, may be regarded as insufficient to give reasonable cause to doubt the fitness and propriety of an applicant.



5.2.10	Effective supervision
5.2.10.(1) 	In assessing whether an applicant is capable of being effectively supervised by   		the Regulator, the Regulator will consider:
(a)	the nature, including the complexity, of the Regulated Activities that the applicant will carry on;
(b)	the complexity of any products that the applicant will provide in carrying on those activities;
(c)	the way in which the applicant's business is organised;
(d)	if the applicant is a member of a Group, whether membership of the Group is likely to prevent the Regulator's effective supervision of the applicant; and
(e)	whether the applicant is subject to consolidated supervision.

5.2.11	Compliance arrangements: In assessing whether an applicant has adequate compliance arrangements, the Regulator will consider whether it has:
(1)	clear and comprehensive policies and procedures relating to compliance with all applicable legal requirements including the Rules; and
(2)	adequate means to implement those policies and procedures and monitor that they are operating effectively and as intended.

5.2.12	In assessing an application for a Financial Services Permission, the Regulator may:
(1)	make any enquiries which it considers appropriate, including enquiries independent of the applicant;
(2)	require the applicant to provide additional information;
(3)	require the applicant to have information on how it intends to ensure compliance with a particular Rule;
(4)	require any information provided by the applicant to be verified in any way that the Regulator specifies; and
(5)	take into account any information which it considers relevant in determining whether the applicant will ensure compliance with requirements imposed by the Regulator in the exercise of its functions.

5.2.13	
5.2.13	(1) 	In assessing an application for a Financial Services Permission the Regulator may, by means of written notice, indicate the legal form that the applicant may adopt to enable authorisation to be granted.
5.2.13	(2)	Where the Regulator thinks it appropriate it may treat an application made by one legal form or Person as having been made by the new legal form or Person.
5.2.14	In assessing an application for a Financial Services Permission authorising the applicant to Operate a Multilateral Trading Facility or an Organised Trading Facility, the Regulator will have regard to, but is not limited to, considering the following matters:
(1)	whether the establishment of a Multilateral Trading Facility or Organised Trading Facility is, or is likely to be, in the interests of the Financial Services and Markets industry;
(2)	whether the Multilateral Trading Facility or Organised Trading Facility will or is likely to lead to more efficient price discovery of, or deepen liquidity in, an Investment; and
(3)	whether there is any risk of market fragmentation, loss of liquidity or inefficiency in price discovery as a result of the proposed Multilateral Trading Facility or Organised Trading Facility operation.

5.3	Controlled Functions and Approved Persons
5.3.1	
5.3.1.(1)	Pursuant to Part 5 of the FSMR, the functions specified in Rules ‎5.3.2 to 5.3.9 are Controlled Functions.
5.3.1.(2)	Performance of Controlled Functions are subject to approval by the Regulator.  
5.3.1.(3)	Where an individual who has been approved pursuant to Rule 5.3.1(2) has his Controlled Function withdrawn or varied, the Authorised Person must notify the Regulator in writing within 10 days of such withdrawal or variation. 
5.3.1.(4)	A Controlled Function shall not include a function performed by a registered insolvency practitioner (subject to the restrictions defined within section 289 of the Insolvency Regulations 2015) if the practitioner is:
(a)	appointed as a receiver or administrative receiver within the meaning of Part 2 of the Insolvency Regulations 2015;
(b)	appointed as a liquidator in relation to a members' voluntary Winding-Up within the meaning of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of the Insolvency Regulations 2015;
(c)	appointed as a liquidator in relation to a creditors' voluntary Winding-Up within the meaning of Chapter 4 of Part 3 of the Insolvency Regulations 2015; or
(d)	appointed as a liquidator or provisional liquidator in relation to a compulsory Winding-Up within the meanings of Chapter 6 of Part 3 of the Insolvency Regulations 2015.
5.3.1.(5)	A Controlled Function shall not include a function performed by an individual appointed to act as manager of the business of an Authorised Person or Recognised Body.

5.3.1.(5).Guidance	The Regulator will approve an Approved Person for the performance of Controlled Functions. However, the Regulator expects that the Authorised Person will carry out proper due diligence to satisfy itself that the individual will be able to carry out his role effectively, is fit and proper to do so, and that there are no conflicts of interest or that any actual or potential conflicts of interest are appropriately managed. 

5.3.2	Senior Executive Officer: The Senior Executive Officer function is carried out by an individual who:
(1)	has, either alone or jointly with other Approved Persons, ultimate responsibility for the day to day management, supervision and control of one or more (or all) parts of an Authorised Person's Regulated Activities carried on in or from the ADGM; and
(2)	is a Director, Partner or Senior Manager of the Authorised Person.


5.3.3	Licensed Director: Subject to Rule ‎5.5.4, the Licensed Director function is carried out by an individual who is a Director of an Authorised Person which is a Body Corporate.
Licensed Partner
5.3.4	Licensed Director: he Licensed Partner function is carried out, in the case of an Authorised Person which is a Partnership, by an individual specified in Rule ‎5.5.5.
Finance Officer
5.3.5	Licensed Director: The Finance Officer function is carried out by an individual who is a Director, Partner or Senior Manager of an Authorised Person who has responsibility for the Authorised Person's compliance with the applicable Rules in PRU or PIN.

5.3.6	Compliance Officer: The Compliance Officer function is carried out by an individual who is a Director, Partner or Senior Manager of an Authorised Person who has responsibility for compliance matters in relation to the Authorised Person's Regulated Activities.

5.3.7	Senior Manager: The Senior Manager function is carried out by an individual who is responsible either alone or jointly with other individuals for the management, supervision or control of one or more parts of an Authorised Person's Regulated Activities who is:
(1)	an Employee of the Authorised Person; and
(2)	not a Director or Partner of the Authorised Person.
5.3.7.Guidance	In respect of a Fund, the Regulator would expect the Fund Manager to appoint at least one individual other than the Senior Executive Officer to carry out Senior Manager functions in relation to the Fund such as managing operational risk and other internal controls.

5.3.8	Money Laundering Reporting Officer: The Money Laundering Reporting Officer function is carried out by an individual who is a Director, Partner or Senior Manager of an Authorised Person and who has responsibility for the implementation of an Authorised Person's anti-money laundering policies, procedures, systems and controls and day to day oversight of its compliance with the Rules in AML and any relevant anti-money laundering Rules.

5.3.9	Responsible Officer: The Responsible Officer function is carried out by an individual who:
(1)	has significant responsibility for the management of one or more aspects of an Authorised Person's affairs;
(2)	exercises a significant influence on the Authorised Person as a result of (1); and
(3)	is not an Employee of the Authorised Person.
5.3.9.Guidance	
5.3.9.Guidance.1.	The Controlled Function of a Responsible Officer applies to an individual employed by a Controller or other Group company who is not an Employee of the Authorised Person, but who has significant responsibility for, or for exercising a significant influence on, the management of one or more aspects of the Authorised Person's business.
5.3.9.Guidance.2.	Examples of a Responsible Officer might include an individual responsible for the overall strategic direction of an Authorised Person or a regional manager to whom a Senior Executive Officer reports and from whom he takes direction.

5.3.10	An Approved Person may perform one or more Controlled Functions for one or more Authorised Persons. 
5.3.10.Guidance
5.3.10.Guidance.1.	In considering whether to grant an individual Approved Person status with respect to more than one Authorised Person, the Regulator will consider each Controlled Function to be carried out and the allocation of responsibility for that individual among the relevant Authorised Persons. In this situation the Regulator will need to be satisfied that the individual will be able to carry out his roles effectively, is fit and proper to do so, and that there are no conflicts of interest or that any actual or potential conflicts of interest are appropriately managed.
5.4	[Deleted]


5.5	Mandatory appointments
5.5.1	
5.5.1.(1)	An Authorised Person must, subject to ‎(2), make the following appointments and ensure that they are held by one or more Approved Persons at all times:
(a)	Senior Executive Officer; 
(b)	Finance Officer;
(c)	Compliance Officer; and
(d)	Money Laundering Reporting Officer.
5.5.1.(2)	An Authorised Person which is a Credit Rating Agency:
(a)	need not make the appointments referred to in ‎(1)‎(b) and ‎(d); and
(b)	must ensure that the appointments referred to in ‎(1)‎(a) and ‎(c) are held by separate persons at all times.
(3)	An Authorised Person which is a Fund Manager of a Venture Capital Fund need not make the appointment referred to in (1)(b).

5.5.1.Guidance	
5.5.1.Guidance.1.	This Guidance addresses a range of circumstances:
a.	one individual performing more than one function in a single Authorised Person, as contemplated in Rule ‎5.5.1;
b.	more than one individual performing one function in a single Authorised Person, not addressed by that Rule; and
c.	one individual performing a single function in more than one Authorised Person, also not addressed by that Rule.
5.5.1.Guidance.2.	The Regulator or relevant Authorised Person, as applicable, will only authorise an individual to perform more than one Controlled Function or combine Controlled Functions where it is satisfied that the individual is fit and proper to perform each Controlled Function or combination of Controlled Functions.
5.5.1.Guidance.3.	In the above situation the Regulator or relevant Authorised Person, as applicable, will need to be satisfied that the individual will be able to carry out his role effectively, is fit and proper to do so, and that there are no conflicts of interest or that any actual or potential conflicts of interest are appropriately managed.
5.5.1.Guidance.4.	Notwithstanding this Rule, an Authorised Person would generally be expected to separate the roles of Compliance Officer and Senior Executive Officer. In addition, the roles of Compliance Officer, Finance Officer and Money Laundering Reporting Officer would not be expected to be combined with any other Controlled Functions unless appropriate monitoring and control arrangements independent of the individual concerned will be implemented by the Authorised Person. This may be possible in the case of a Branch, where monitoring and controlling of the individual (carrying out more than one role in the Branch) is conducted from the Authorised Person's home state by an appropriate individual for each of the relevant Controlled Functions as applicable. However, it is recognised that, on a case by case basis, there may be exceptional circumstances in which this may not always be practical or possible.
5.5.1.Guidance.5.	In what it considers to be exceptional circumstances, the relevant Authorised Person may register more than one individual to perform the Controlled Function of Compliance Officer in respect of different internal business divisions within that Authorised Person, particularly where it is large in size. In this regard the relevant Authorised Person may consider, amongst other things, the nature, scale and complexity of its activities, the clarity of demarcation between areas of responsibility, the potential for gaps in responsibility, and processes of communication with the Regulator.
5.5.1.Guidance.6.	More than one Authorised Person may also register the same individual as its Compliance Officer. This will only be performed where the Authorised Persons concerned are satisfied that the individual is able to carry out his functions effectively in each Authorised Person taking into consideration factors such as the amount and nature of business conducted by the Authorised Persons. Each Authorised Person has a duty under Rules ‎3.3.7 to ‎3.3.12 to monitor its compliance arrangements to ensure, as far as reasonably practicable, that it complies with all Regulations and Rules.

5.5.2	The Approved Persons referred to in Rule ‎5.5.1(1)(a), ‎(c) and ‎(d) must be resident in the U.A.E.
5.5.2.Guidance	
5.5.2.Guidance.1.	In appropriate circumstances, the Regulator may waive the requirement for a Compliance Officer or Money Laundering Reporting Officer to be resident in the U.A.E. In determining whether to grant a Waiver, the Regulator will consider a range of factors on a case by case basis focused on whether the Authorised Person can demonstrate that it has appropriate compliance arrangements (see Rules ‎3.3.7 to ‎3.3.12). These factors may include, but are not limited to: the nature, scale and complexity of the activities of the Authorised Person; the ability of a remote officer to carry out his functions in differing time zones and a differing working week; the size, resourcing and capabilities of a remote compliance function; the ability of a remote officer to liaise and communicate readily with the Regulator; and the competency and capability of a remote officer and whether the remote officer is able effectively to undertake or supervise regular compliance monitoring and keep up to date with applicable Rules.
5.5.2.Guidance.2.	The Regulator will also take into account factors such as the relevant regulatory experience of the proposed Approved Person, and whether the applicant Authorised Person has previously been subject to financial services regulation.
5.5.2.Guidance.3.	An Authorised Person should also be aware of the residency requirement for an MLRO under AML 12.1.1(2).
5.5.3	In the case of a Trust Service Provider, the Approved Persons referred to in Rule ‎5.5.1‎(1)‎(c) and ‎(d) must not act also as trustees on behalf of the Trust Service Provider. 
5.5.4	An Authorised Person which is a Body Corporate whose head office and registered office are located in the ADGM, must register with the Regulator all of its Directors as Licensed Directors.

5.5.5.	
5.5.5.(1)	In the case of an Authorised Person which is a Partnership established under either the Limited Liability Partnership Regulations 2015 or the Partnership Act 1890, the Licensed Partner function must be carried out by:
(a)	each individual Partner who must be registered as a Licensed Partner; and
(b)	in the case of a Partner which is a Body Corporate, by an individual nominated by that Body Corporate and registered as a Licensed Partner to act on its behalf.
5.5.5.Guidance	An Authorised Person that is a Branch is not required to register its Directors as Licensed Directors under Rule ‎5.5.4 or its Partners as Licensed Partners under Rule ‎5.5.5.
5.6	Application for Approved Person status
5.6.1	In submitting applications to the Regulator for Approved Person status in respect of the Controlled Functions, the Authorised Person must make applications in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe. 
5.6.2	Applicants for Approved Person status must countersign or otherwise consent to an application.  
5.6.3	When an Authorised Person applies to the Regulator, for that individual to be an Approved Person, the individual must satisfy the Regulator and the Authorised Person that he is a fit and proper person to carry out the role.

5.6.4	Consideration and assessment of applications: An individual will only be authorised to carry on one or more Controlled Functions if the Regulator is satisfied that the individual is fit and proper to be an Approved Person. In making this assessment, the Regulator will consider:
(1)	the individual's integrity;
(2)	the individual's competence and capability; 
(3)	the individual's financial soundness;
(4)	the individual's proposed role within the Authorised Person; and
(5)	any other relevant matters.
5.6.4.Guidance	The GPM sets out matters which the Regulator takes into consideration when making an assessment of the kind under Rule ‎5.6.4

5.6.5	In Rule ‎5.6.4, an individual may not be considered as fit and proper where: 
(1)	he is bankrupt;
(2)	he has been convicted of a serious criminal offence; or
(3)	he is incapable, through mental or physical incapacity, of managing his affairs.
5.6.6	In assessing an application for Approved Person status, the Regulator may:
(1)	make any enquiries which it considers appropriate, including enquiries independent of the applicant;
(2)	require the individual or Authorised Person to provide additional information;
(3)	require any information provided in accordance with (b) or otherwise to be verified in any way specified by the Regulator; and
(4)	take into account any information which it considers appropriate.
5.6.7	An Authorised Person must not permit an individual to perform a Controlled Function on its behalf, except as permitted by Rule ‎8.6, unless that individual is an Approved Person who has been assessed by the Authorised Person as competent to perform that Controlled Function in accordance with Rule ‎5.6.8.
5.6.8	In assessing the competence of an individual, an Authorised Person must:
(1)	obtain details of the knowledge and skills of the individual in relation to the knowledge and skills required for the role;
(2)	take reasonable steps to verify the relevance, accuracy and authenticity of any information acquired;
(3)	determine whether the individual holds any relevant qualifications with respect to the Controlled Function or Controlled Functions performed, or proposed to be to performed, within the Authorised Person;
(4)	determine the individual's relevant experience; and
(5)	determine the individual's knowledge of the Authorised Person's relevant systems and procedures with respect to the type of business that is to be, or is being, conducted by the individual on behalf of the Authorised Person.
5.6.9	An Authorised Person must be satisfied that an Approved Person: 
(1)	continues to be competent in his proposed role;
(2)	has kept abreast of relevant market, product, technology, legislative and regulatory developments; and
(3)	is able to apply his knowledge.
5.6.10	The Authorised Person is responsible for the conduct of its Approved Persons and for ensuring that they remain fit and proper to carry out their role.
5.6.10.Guidance	In considering whether an Approved Person remains fit and proper, the Authorised Person should consider those matters in the GPM and the notification requirements in Rule ‎8.10.
5.6.11	Before lodging an application with the Regulator to perform a Controlled Function, an Authorised Person must make reasonable enquiries as to an individual's fitness and propriety to carry out a Controlled Function.
5.6.12	An Authorised Person must not lodge an application in accordance with Rule ‎5.6.1 if it has reasonable grounds to believe that the individual is not fit and proper to carry out the Controlled Function.


5.6.13	Systems and controls: An Authorised Person must have appropriate arrangements in place to ensure that an individual assessed as being competent under Rule ‎5.6.8 maintains his competence.
5.6.14	An Authorised Person must ensure, in the case of individuals seeking to perform the Controlled Functions of Senior Executive Officer, Money Laundering Reporting Officer or Compliance Officer that such individuals are able to demonstrate sufficient knowledge of relevant anti-money laundering requirements.
5.6.14.Guidance	In considering whether individuals have sufficient knowledge of relevant anti-money laundering requirements, the Authorised Person may be satisfied where the individual can demonstrate receipt of appropriate training specifically relevant to such requirements.
5.6.15	An Authorised Person must establish and maintain systems and controls which will enable it to comply with Rules ‎5.6.7 to ‎5.6.10.
5.6.16	
5.6.16.(1)	An Authorised Person must keep records of the assessment process undertaken for each individual under this Chapter.
5.6.16.(2)	These records must be kept for a minimum of six years from the date of the assessment.

6.	ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
6.1	Application
6.1.1	This Chapter applies to every Authorised Person and Recognised Body other than a Representative Office.
6.1.2	An Authorised Person or Recognised Body which is a Representative Office is hereby exempt from the requirements in section 189 of the FSMR relating to the appointment of an Auditor.
6.1.2.Guidance	The Regulator has exercised its power under section 189 of the FSMR to exempt an Authorised Person or Recognised Body which is a Representative Office from the requirements in that section. As a result, in accordance with the terms of section 189 the FSMR, the Representative Office also does not need to comply with other requirements in Part 15 of the FSMR. 

6.2	Financial statements and financial reporting standards
6.2.1	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must prepare financial statements for each financial year of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body.
6.2.1.Guidance
6.2.1.Guidance.1.	IFR sets out specific disclosures an Authorised Person and Recognised Body must include in its financial statements when carrying on Islamic Financial Business.
6.2.1.Guidance.2.	The financial statements prepared by an Authorised Person or Recognised Body which is a Branch may be the financial statements prepared for the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's head office.
6.2.2	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must, except as provided under Rule ‎6.2.3, prepare and maintain all financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS").
6.2.3	
6.2.3.(1)	An Authorised Person specified in ‎(2) may prepare and maintain its financial statements in accordance with IFRS for Small and Medium Sized Entities (SMEs) where that standard applies to it.
6.2.3.(2)	Authorised Persons specified for the purposes of ‎(1) are:
(a)	an Authorised Person in Category 3B, Category 3C or Category 4, which does not hold or control Client Assets or Insurance Monies; and
(b)	an Authorised Person in Category 4 which is not authorised under its Financial Services Permission to carry on the Regulated Activity of Operating a Multilateral Trading Facility or Organised Trading Facility.
6.2.3.(3)	The Regulator may by written notice direct that a particular Authorised Person or a specified class of Authorised Person specified in ‎(2) must prepare and maintain financial statements in accordance with IFRS rather than IFRS for Small and Medium Sized Entities.
6.2.3.(4)	The Regulator may by written notice vary or revoke a direction under ‎(3).
6.2.3.(5)	The procedures in Part 21 of the FSMR apply to a decision of the Regulator to give a direction under ‎(3) to a particular Authorised Person.
6.2.3.(6)	If the Regulator decides to give a direction under ‎(3) to a particular Authorised Person, the Authorised Person may refer the matter to the Regulatory Committee for review.
6.2.4	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must:
(1)	if it is a Body Corporate, have its financial statements approved by the Directors and signed on their behalf by at least one of the Directors; or
(2)	if it is a Partnership, have its financial statements approved by the Partners and signed on their behalf by at least one of the Partners.
6.3	Accounting Records and Regulatory Returns
6.3.1	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must keep Accounting Records which are sufficient to show and explain Transactions and are such as to:
(1)	be capable of disclosing the financial position of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body on an ongoing basis; and
(2)	record the financial position of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body as at its financial year end.
6.3.2	Accounting Records must be maintained by an Authorised Person and Recognised Body such as to enable its Governing Body to ensure that any financial statements prepared by the Authorised Person or Recognised Body comply with the Regulations and Rules.
6.3.3	Each Authorised Person or Recognised Body's Accounting Records must be:
(1)	retained by the Authorised Person or Recognised Body for at least six years from the date to which they relate;
(2)	at all reasonable times, open to inspection by the Regulator or the Auditor of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body; and
(3)	if requested by the Regulator capable of reproduction, within a reasonable period not exceeding three Business Days, in hard copy and in English.
6.3.4	All Regulatory Returns prepared by the Authorised Person must be prepared and submitted in accordance with the requirements set out in PRU or PIN as applicable.
Financial years
6.3.5	
6.3.5.(1) 	The first financial year of an Authorised Person which is a Domestic Firm starts on the day on which it is incorporated and lasts for such period not exceeding 18 months as may be determined by its Directors or Partners.
6.3.5.(2)	An Authorised Person which is a Domestic Firm must as soon as practicable after it has made a determination under ‎(1) notify the Regulator of the end date determined for its first financial year.
6.3.5.(3)	The second and any subsequent financial year of an Authorised Person which is a Domestic Firm shall, except as provided in Rule ‎6.3.6, start at the end of the previous financial year and shall last for 12 months or such other period which is within seven days either shorter or longer than 12 months as may be determined by its Directors or Partners.
6.3.6	
6.3.6.(1)	An Authorised Person which is a Domestic Firm may only change its financial year end from a period provided for under Rule ‎6.3.5(3) with the Regulator's prior consent.
6.3.6.(2)	The application for consent must be in writing and include the reasons for the change.
6.3.6.(3)	The Regulator may require the Authorised Person to obtain written confirmation from its Auditor that the change of financial year end would not result in any significant distortion of the financial position of the Authorised Person.
6.3.7	If an Authorised Person is not a Domestic Firm and intends to change its financial year, it must provide the Regulator with reasonable advance notice prior to the change taking effect.
6.4	Appointment and termination of Auditors
6.4.1	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must:
(1)	notify the Regulator of the appointment of an Auditor in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe; and
(2)	prior to the appointment of the Auditor, take reasonable steps to ensure that the Auditor has the required skills, resources and experience to audit the business of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body for which the auditor has been appointed.
6.4.2	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must notify the Regulator immediately if the appointment of the Auditor is or is about to be terminated, or on the resignation of its Auditor, in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe.
6.4.3	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must appoint an Auditor to fill any vacancy in the office of Auditor and ensure that the replacement Auditor can take up office at the time the vacancy arises or as soon as reasonably practicable.
6.4.4	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must comply with any request by the Regulator to replace an Auditor previously appointed by that Authorised Person or Recognised Body. 

6.4.5.	
6.4.5.(1)	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must take reasonable steps to ensure that the Auditor and the relevant audit staff of the Auditor are independent of and not subject to any conflict of interest with respect to the Authorised Person or Recognised Body.
6.4.5.(2)	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must notify the Regulator if it becomes aware, or has reason to believe, that the Auditor or the relevant audit staff of the Auditor are no longer independent of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body, or have a conflict of interest which may affect their judgement in respect of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body.
6.4.5.Guidance	
6.4.5.Guidance.1.	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body should consider whether there is any financial or personal relationship between it or any of its relevant Employees and the Auditor or any of the relevant Employees of the Auditor that may affect the judgement of the Auditor when conducting an audit of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body or complying with all its legal obligations, including the FSMR, AML and other relevant Rulebooks.
6.4.5.Guidance.2.	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body should consider rotating the appointed relevant staff of the Auditor on a regular basis to ensure that the relevant staff of the Auditor remain independent.
6.4.6	If requested by the Regulator, an Authorised Person or Recognised Body which carries on Regulated Activities through a Branch must provide the Regulator with information on its appointed or proposed Auditor with regard to the Auditor's skills, experience and independence.
6.5	Co operation with Auditors
6.5.1	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must take reasonable steps to ensure that it and its Employees:
(1)	provide any information to its Auditor that its Auditor reasonably requires, or is entitled to receive as Auditor;
(2)	give the Auditor right of access at all reasonable times to relevant records and information within its possession;
(3)	allow the Auditor to make copies of any records or information referred to in ‎(2);
(4)	do not interfere with the Auditor's ability to discharge its duties;
(5)	report to the Auditor any matter which may significantly affect the financial position of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body; and
(6)	provide such other assistance as the Auditor may reasonably request it to provide.

6.6	Audit reports
6.6.1	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must, in writing, arrange for and ensure the submission of the following by its Auditor:
(1)	a Financial Statement Auditor's Report on the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's financial statements in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing following the performance of an audit;
(2)	a Regulatory Returns Auditor's Report in accordance with the Rules ‎6.6.4 and ‎6.6.5 as relevant;
(3)	if the Authorised Person is permitted to control or hold Client Money, a Client Money Auditor's Report in accordance with Rule ‎6.6.6; 
(4)	if the Authorised Person is permitted to hold or control Client Investments or Provide Custody in or from the ADGM, a Safe Custody Auditor's Report in respect of such business as applicable, in accordance with the Rule ‎6.6.7; 
(5)	if FUNDS is applicable, a Fund Auditor's Report in accordance with Rule ‎6.6.8; and
(6)	if the Authorised Person is a Public Listed Company, a Public Listed Company Auditor's Report in accordance with Rule ‎6.6.9.   
6.6.1.Guidance	For the purposes of Rule ‎6.6.1(1) and (2) the financial statements of an Authorised Person or Recognised Body which is a Branch may be the financial statements prepared for the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's head office or management accounts or reports that are specific to the Branch.
6.6.2	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must submit any reports produced by its Auditor in accordance with this Chapter to the Regulator annually within four months of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's financial year end.
6.6.3	
6.6.3.(1) 	Each Authorised Person must, subject to ‎(2), upon request by any Person, provide a copy of its most recent audited financial statements, together with the Financial Statement Auditor's Report to the Person. If the copy is made available in printed form, the Authorised Person may make a charge to cover reasonable costs incurred in providing the copy.
6.6.3.(2)	The requirement in ‎(1) does not apply to an Authorised Person which:
(a)	is in Category 3B, Category 3C or Category 4; and
(b)	does not hold or control Client Assets or Insurance Monies.
6.6.3.Guidance	An Authorised Person and Recognised Body should be aware that there may be other legislation applicable to it that may require the Authorised Person or Recognised Body to provide access to all or part of its financial statements.

6.6.4	Regulatory Returns Auditor's Report: An Authorised Person or Recognised Body must, in procuring the production of a Regulatory Returns Auditor's Report for a Domestic Firm, ensure that the Auditor states whether:
(1)	it has received all the necessary information and explanations for the purposes of preparing the report to the Regulator;
(2)	the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's Regulatory Returns, specified in PRU, PIN, COBS or MIR to the Regulator have been properly reconciled with the appropriate audited financial statements;
(3)	the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's Regulatory Returns, specified in PRU, PIN, COBS or MIR to the Regulator on a quarterly basis have been properly reconciled with the appropriate annual returns; 
(4)	the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's financial resources as at its financial year end have been properly calculated in accordance with the applicable Rules in PRU, PIN, COBS or MIR (as the case may be) and are sufficient to meet the relevant requirements; 
(5)	(in the case of an Authorised Person other than an Insurer) the Capital Resources have been calculated in accordance with the applicable Rules;
(6)	(in the case of an Authorised Person other than an Insurer) the Capital Resources maintained exceed the Capital Requirement in accordance with the applicable Rules; 
(7)	(in the case of an Authorised Person) the Regulatory Returns specified in PRU or PIN have been properly prepared by the Authorised Person in accordance with the applicable Rules;
(8)	(in the case of an Authorised Person) the Authorised Person has kept proper Accounting Records in accordance with the applicable Rules;
(9)	(in the case of an Authorised Person which is subject to Expenditure Based Capital Minimum) the Expenditure Base Capital Minimum has been calculated in accordance with the applicable Rules; and
(10)	(in the case of an Authorised Person in Category 3B, 3C or 4, and which is subject to Expenditure Based Capital Minimum) the Capital Requirement maintained exceeds its Expenditure Based Capital Minimum and has been maintained in the form of liquid assets in accordance with the applicable Rules.
6.6.5	An Authorised Person or Recognised Body must ensure that, in procuring the production of a Regulatory Returns Auditor's Report for a Branch, an Auditor states whether:
(1)	the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's Regulatory Returns have been properly reconciled with the Branch's financial statements; and 
(2)	in the case of an Authorised Person only:
(a)	the Regulatory Returns specified in PRU or PIN have been properly prepared by the Authorised Person in accordance with the applicable rules in PRU or PIN; and
(b)	the Authorised Person has kept proper Accounting Records in accordance with the applicable Rules in PRU or PIN.  

6.6.6	Client Money Auditor's Report:An Authorised Person must, in procuring the production of a Client Money Auditor's Report, ensure that an Auditor states, as at the date of which the Authorised Person's audited statement of financial position was prepared:
(1)	the amount of Client Money an Authorised Person was holding and controlling in accordance with COBS Chapter 14; and
(2)	whether:
(a)	the Authorised Person has maintained throughout the year systems and controls to enable it to comply with the relevant provisions of COBS Chapter 14;
(b)	the Authorised Person's controls are such as to ensure that Client Money is identifiable and secure at all times;
(c)	any of the requirements in COBS Chapter 14 have not been met; 
(d)	Client Money has been pooled in a single client Account or segregated in Client Accounts maintained for individual Clients in accordance with COBS Chapter 14; 
(e)	if applicable, the Authorised Person as holding and controlling the appropriate amount of Client Money in accordance with COBS Chapter 14 as at the date on which the Authorised Person's audited statement of financial position was prepared;
(f)	the Auditor has received all necessary information and explanations for the purposes of preparing the report to the Regulator; and
(g)	if applicable, there have been any material discrepancies in the reconciliation of Client Money.
6.6.6.Guidance	Where an Authorised Person does not hold or control any Client Money as at the date on which the Authorised Person's audited statement of financial position was prepared, the Regulator expects that a nil balance be stated to comply with Rule ‎6.6.6. 

6.6.7	Safe Custody Auditor's Report: An Authorised Person must, in procuring the production of a Safe Custody Auditor's Report by its Auditor, ensure that the Auditor states, as at the date on which the Authorised Person's audited statement of financial position was prepared:
(1)	the extent to which the Authorised Person was holding and controlling Client Investments, Arranging Custody or Providing Custody; and
(2)	whether:
(a)	the Authorised Person has, throughout the year, maintained systems and controls to enable it to comply with the Safe Custody Rules in COBS Chapter 15;
(b)	the Safe Custody Investments are registered, recorded or held in accordance with the Safe Custody Rules;
(c)	there have been any material discrepancies in the reconciliation of Safe Custody Investments;
(d)	the Auditor has received all necessary information and explanations for the purposes of preparing this report to the Regulator; and
(e)	any of the requirements of the Safe Custody Provisions have not been met.
6.6.7.Guidance	Where an Authorised Person does not hold or control any Client Investments or Provide Custody as at the date on which the Authorised Person's audited statement of financial position was prepared, the Regulator expects that such fact be stated to comply with Rule ‎6.6.7. 

6.6.8	Fund Auditor's Report. A Fund Manager must, in procuring the production of a Fund Auditor's Report, ensure that an Auditor states:
(1)	whether the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the financial reporting standards adopted by the Fund in accordance with FUNDS;
(2)	whether the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Fund, including the net income and the net gains or losses of the Fund Property, or, as the case may be, the Fund Property attributable to the Sub-Fund for the annual accounting period in question and the financial position of the Fund or Sub-Fund as at the end of the annual accounting period;
(3)	whether proper accounting records for the Fund, or as the case may be, Sub-Fund, have not been kept, or that the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns, or that the financial statements do not comply with the applicable financial reporting standards;
(4)	whether it has been given all the information and explanations which, to the best of its knowledge and belief, are necessary for the purposes of its audit;
(5)	whether the information given in the report of the Directors or in the report of the Fund Manager for that period is consistent with the financial statements; and
(6)	any other matter or opinion required by FUNDS. 

6.6.9	Public Listed Company Auditor's Report. An Authorised Person or Recognised Body, in procuring the production of a Public Listed Company Auditor's Report, must ensure that an Auditor states whether the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with MKT. 
 
7.	COMPLAINTS HANDLING AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION
7.1	Application
7.1.1	This Chapter applies to every Authorised Person, other than a Representative Office and a Credit Rating Agency, carrying on a Regulated Activity in or from the ADGM as follows:
(1)	Rule ‎7.2 applies to an Authorised Person carrying on a Regulated Activity with or for a Retail Client; and
(2)	Rule ‎7.3 applies to an Authorised Person carrying on a Regulated Activity with or for a Professional Client.

7.2	Complaints handling procedures for Retail Clients

7.2.1	Written Complaints handling procedures. An Authorised Person must have adequate policies and procedures in place for the investigation and resolution of Complaints made against it by Retail Clients, and the manner of redress (including compensation for acts or omissions of the Authorised Person).
7.2.2	Written Complaints handling procedures. The policies and procedures for handling Complaints must be in writing and provide that Complaints are handled fairly, consistently and promptly.
7.2.2.Guidance	
7.2.2.Guidance.1.	In establishing adequate Complaints handling policies and procedures, an Authorised Person should have regard to:
a.	 the nature, scale and complexity of its business; and
b.	its size and organisational structure.
7.2.2.Guidance.2.	An Authorised Person should consider its obligations under Rule ‎3.3.19 and accompanying guidance.
7.2.2.Guidance.3.	The Regulator considers 60 days from the receipt of a Complaint to be an appropriate period in which an Authorised Person should be able to resolve most Complaints.

7.2.3	On receipt of a Complaint, an Authorised Person must:
(1)	acknowledge the Complaint promptly in writing;
(2)	provide the complainant with:
(i)	the contact details of any individual responsible for handling the Complaint;
(ii)	key particulars of the Authorised Person's Complaints handling procedures; and
(iii)	a statement that a copy of the procedures is available free of charge upon request in accordance with Rule ‎7.2.11; and
(3)	consider the subject matter of the Complaint.
7.2.4	Where appropriate, an Authorised Person must update the complainant on the progress of the handling of the Complaint.
7.2.4.Guidance	
7.2.4.Guidance.1.	The Regulator considers seven days to be an adequate period in which an Authorised Person should be able to acknowledge most Complaints.
7.2.4.Guidance.2.	The Regulator expects an update to be provided to the complainant in circumstances where the resolution of the Complaint is taking longer than 30 days.

7.2.5	Resolution of Complaints. Upon conclusion of an investigation of a Complaint, an Authorised Person must promptly:
(1)	advise the complainant in writing of the resolution of the Complaint; 
(2)	provide the complainant with clear terms of redress, if applicable; and
(3)	comply with the terms of redress if accepted by the complainant.
7.2.6	If the complainant is not satisfied with the terms of redress offered by the Authorised Person, the Authorised Person must inform the complainant of other avenues, if any, for resolution of the Complaint and provide him with the appropriate contact details upon request.
7.2.6.Guidance	Other avenues for resolution of a Complaint may include an external dispute resolution scheme, arbitration, the Appeals Panel or Court in the ADGM.

7.2.7	Employees handling Complaints. Where appropriate, taking into account the nature, scale and complexity of an Authorised Person's business, an Authorised Person must ensure that any individual handling the Complaint is not or was not involved in the conduct of the Regulated Activity about which the Complaint has been made, and is able to handle the Complaint in a fair and impartial manner.
7.2.8	An Authorised Person must ensure that any individual responsible for handling the Complaint has sufficient authority to resolve the Complaint or has access to individuals with the necessary authority.


7.2.9	Complaints involving other Authorised Persons or Recognised Bodies. If an Authorised Person considers that another Authorised Person or a Recognised Body is entirely or partly responsible for the subject matter of a Complaint, it may refer the Complaint, or the relevant part of it, to the other Authorised Person or Recognised Body in accordance with Rule ‎7.2.10.
7.2.10	To refer a Complaint, an Authorised Person must:
(1)	inform the complainant promptly and in writing that it would like to refer the Complaint, either entirely or in part, to another Authorised Person or Recognised Body, and obtain the written consent of the complainant to do so;
(2)	if the complainant consents to the referral of the Complaint, refer the Complaint to the other Authorised Person or Recognised Body promptly and in writing;
(3)	inform the complainant promptly and in writing that the Complaint has been referred and include adequate contact details of any individual at the other Authorised Person or Recognised Body responsible for handling the Complaint; and 
(4)	continue to deal with any part of the Complaint not referred to the other	 Authorised Person or Recognised Body, in accordance with this Chapter.

7.2.11	Retail Client awareness. An Authorised Person must ensure that a copy of its Complaints handling procedures is available free of charge to any Retail Client upon request.

7.2.12	Retention of records.An Authorised Person must maintain a record of all Complaints made against it for a minimum period of six years from the date of receipt of a Complaint.
7.2.13	Retention of records. The record maintained under Rule ‎7.2.12 must contain the name of the complainant, the substance of the Complaint, a record of the Authorised Person's response, and any other relevant correspondence or records, and the action taken by the Authorised Person to resolve each Complaint.

7.2.14	Systems and controls. In accordance with Rules ‎3.3.4 and ‎3.3.5, an Authorised Person must put in place adequate systems and controls in order for it to identify and remedy any recurring or systemic problems identified from Complaints.
7.2.14.Guidance	An Authorised Person should consider whether it is required to notify the Regulator, pursuant to Rule ‎8.10.6, of any recurring or systemic problems identified from Complaints.

7.2.14.Outsourcing	
7.2.14.Outsourcing.Guidance	An Authorised Person may outsource the administration of its Complaints handling procedures in accordance with Rules ‎3.3.31 and ‎3.3.32.

7.3	Complaints recording procedures for Professional Clients
7.3.1	An Authorised Person must have adequate policies and procedures in place for the recording of Complaints made against it by Professional Clients.
7.3.2	An Authorised Person must maintain a record of any Complaint made against it for a minimum period of six years from the date of receipt of the Complaint.
7.3.2.Guidance	Depending on the nature, scale and complexity of its business, it may be appropriate for an Authorised Person to have in place a suitable Complaints handling procedure for Professional Clients in order to ensure that such Complaints are properly handled and remedial action is taken promptly. Such Complaints handling procedures would be expected to include provisions about the independence of staff investigating the Complaint and bringing the matter to the attention of senior management.

8.	SUPERVISION
8.Introduction	
8.Introduction.Guidance	
8.Introduction.Guidance.1.	This Chapter outlines the Regulator's supervisory requirements for an Authorised Person and Recognised Body.
8.Introduction.Guidance.2.	This Chapter should be read in conjunction with the GPM which sets out the Regulator's general regulatory policy and processes.
8.1	Information gathering and the Regulator's access to information
8.1.1	This Rule applies to an Authorised Person and Recognised Body other than a Representative Office with respect to the carrying on of all of its activities.
8.1.2	An Authorised Person and Recognised Body must where reasonable:
(1)	give or procure the giving of specified information, Documents, files, tapes, computer data or other material in the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's possession or control to the Regulator;
(2)	make its Employees readily available for meetings with the Regulator;
(3)	give the Regulator access to any information, Documents, records, files, tapes, computer data or systems, which are within the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's possession or control and provide any facilities to the Regulator;
(4)	permit the Regulator to copy Documents or other material on the premises of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body at the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's expense;
(5)	provide any copies as requested by the Regulator; and
(6)	answer truthfully, fully and promptly, all questions which are put to it by the Regulator.
8.1.3	An Authorised Person and Recognised Body must take reasonable steps to ensure that its Employees act in the manner set out in this Chapter.
8.1.4	An Authorised Person and Recognised Body must take reasonable steps to ascertain if there is any secrecy or data protection legislation that would restrict access by the Authorised Person, Recognised Body or the Regulator to any data required to be recorded under the Regulator's Rules. Where such legislation exists, the Authorised Person or Recognised Body must keep copies of relevant Documents or material in a jurisdiction which does allow access in accordance with Regulations and Rules.

8.1.5	Lead regulation
8.1.5.(1)	If requested by the Regulator, an Authorised Person and Recognised Body must provide the Regulator with information that the Authorised Person or Recognised Body or its Auditor has provided to a Non-ADGM Financial Services Regulator.
8.1.5.(2)	If requested by the Regulator, an Authorised Person and Recognised Body must take reasonable steps to provide the Regulator with information that other members of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's Group have provided to a Non-ADGM Financial Services Regulator.
8.2	Waivers and Modifications
8.2.1	This Rule applies to every Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Foreign Fund Manager, Person making an Offer of Securities or Reporting Entity.
8.2.2	[Deleted]
8.2.Guidance	Throughout the Rulebooks and non-Rulebook guidance a Direction given under section 9 of the FSMR will be referred to as a "Waiver” or a “Modification" as appropriate.
8.2.3	If an Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Foreign Fund Manager, Person making an Offer of Securities or Reporting Entity wishes to apply for a Waiver or Modification, it must apply in writing and the application must be delivered to the Regulator as outlined in Rule ‎8.2.4.
8.2.3.Guidance	Applications for a Waiver or Modification must be made in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe and the GPM sets out the Regulator's approach to considering an application for a Waiver or Modification.
8.2.4	The application must contain:
(1)	the name and Financial Services Permission/Recognition Order/FSRA identification number of the Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Foreign Fund Manager, Person making an Offer of Securities or Reporting Entity; 
(2)	the Rule to which the application relates;
(3)	a clear explanation of the Waiver or Modification that is being applied for and the reason why the Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Foreign Fund Manager, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity is requesting the Waiver or Modification;
(4)	details of any other requirements; for example, if there is a specific period for which the Waiver or Modification is required;
(5)	the reason, if any, why the Waiver or Modification should not be published or why it should be published without disclosing the identity of the Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Foreign Fund Manager, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity; and
(6)	all relevant facts to support the application.
8.2.5	An Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity must immediately notify the Regulator if it becomes aware of any material change in circumstances which may affect the application for or the continuing relevance of a Waiver or Modification.
Revocation and variation of Waivers or Modification
8.2.6	The Regulator may revoke or vary a Waiver or Modification at any time. In deciding whether to revoke or vary a Waiver or Modification, the Regulator will consider whether the conditions in Rules ‎8.2.1 to ‎8.2.3 are no longer satisfied, and whether the Waiver or Modification is otherwise no longer appropriate. 
8.2.7	If the Regulator proposes to revoke or vary a Waiver or Modification, or revokes or varies a Waiver or Modification with immediate effect, it will:
(1)	give the Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity written notice either of its proposal, or of its action, and may give reasons for such proposal or action; and 
(2)	state in the notice a reasonable period within which the Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity can make representations about the proposal or action.
8.2.8	If the Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity wishes to make oral representations in accordance with its rights under Rule ‎8.2.7(2), it should:
(1)	inform the Regulator as soon as possible;
(2)	specify who will make the representations; and
(3)	specify which matters will be covered.
8.2.9	Upon receipt of information from the Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body or Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity under Rule ‎8.2.8, the Regulator will inform the Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body or Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity of the time and place for hearing the representations and may request a written summary of such representations.
8.2.10	After considering any representations made by an Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity under Rule ‎8.2.8:
(1)	in the case of a proposed revocation or variation, the Regulator will give the Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity written confirmation of its decision to revoke or vary the Waiver or Modification or not, as the case may be; or
(2)	in the case of a revocation or variation that has already taken effect, either confirm the revocation or variation or seek the Authorised Person’s, Recognised Body's, Remote Body’s, Remote Member’s, Person making a Public Offer’s or Reporting Entity’s consent to a new Waiver or Modification.
8.2.11	Alternatively, the Regulator may vary a Waiver or Modification with the Authorised Person’s, Recognised Body's, Remote Body’s, Remote Member’s, Person making a Public Offer’s or Reporting Entity’s consent, or upon the application of the Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity. 
8.2.12	If an Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity wishes the Regulator to vary a Waiver or Modification, or the Regulator wishes to vary a Waiver or Modification with the consent of the relevant Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity each of the Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity (as applicable), and the Regulator should follow the procedures in this Rule. 
8.2.13	If the Waiver or Modification that has been revoked or varied, as the case may be, has previously been published, the Regulator may publish the variation unless it is satisfied that it is inappropriate or unnecessary to do so, having regard to any representations made by the Authorised Person, Recognised Body, Remote Body, Remote Member, Person making a Public Offer or Reporting Entity. 
8.3	Application to change the scope of a Financial Services Permission
8.3.1	This Rule applies to an Authorised Person applying to change the scope of its Financial Services Permission or, where a condition or restriction has previously been imposed, to have the condition or restriction varied or withdrawn.
8.3.2	The provisions relating to permitted legal forms, fitness and propriety, adequate and appropriate resources, compliance arrangements, effective supervision, enquiries and the provision of additional information set out in Rule ‎5.2 also apply to an Authorised Person making an application under this Chapter, and are to be construed accordingly.
8.3.3	An Authorised Person applying to change the scope of its Financial Services Permission, or to have a condition or restriction varied or withdrawn, must provide the Regulator with written details of the proposed changes.
8.4	Withdrawal of a Financial Services Permission at an Authorised Person's request
8.4.1	An Authorised Person seeking to have its Financial Services Permission withdrawn must submit a request in writing stating:
(1)	the reasons for the request;
(2)	that it has ceased or will cease to carry on Regulated Activities in or from the ADGM;
(3)	the date on which it ceased or will cease to carry on Regulated Activities in or from the ADGM; 
(4)	that it has discharged, or will discharge, all obligations owed to its Customers in respect of whom the Authorised Person has carried on, or will cease to carry on, Regulated Activities in or from the ADGM; and
(5)	if it is Providing Trust Services, that it has made appropriate arrangements for the transfer of business to a new Trust Service Provider and the appointment, where necessary, of new trustees. 
8.4.1.Guidance	When considering a withdrawal of a Financial Services Permission, the Regulator takes into account a number of matters including those outlined in the GPM.
8.5	Changes to an Approved Person status
8.4.1.Guidance	This Rule addresses applications or requests regarding Approved Persons with respect to Parts 3, 4 and 5 of the FSMR.
8.5.1	An application to extend the scope of an Approved Person status to other Controlled Functions may be made by the Authorised Person by submitting an application in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe. Applicants for extension of scope of Approved Person status must countersign or otherwise consent to an application. 
8.5.2	An Authorised Person requesting:
(1)	the imposition, variation or withdrawal of a condition or restriction;
(2)	withdrawal of Approved Person status; or
(3)	withdrawal of authorisation in relation to one or more Controlled Functions; 
must, subject to Rule ‎8.5.3, for ‎(1) submit such request in writing to the Regulator and for ‎(2) and ‎(3) submit a request in such form as the Regulator as applicable, shall prescribe.
8.5.3	A request for the variation or withdrawal of a condition or restriction may only be made after the expiry of any period within which a reference to the Court relating to the relevant condition or restriction may commence under Part 19 of the FSMR.
8.5.3.Guidance	In considering the suitability of such an application or request the Regulator or relevant Authorised Person, as applicable, may take into account any matter referred to in GPM with respect to fitness and propriety for Approved Persons.
8.6	Temporary cover
8.6.1	
8.6.1.(1)	An Authorised Person may, subject to ‎(2), appoint an individual who is not an Approved Person to carry out the functions of an Approved Person, where the following conditions are met:
(a)	the absence of the Approved Person is temporary or reasonably unforeseen;
(b)	the functions are carried out for a maximum of twelve weeks in any consecutive twelve months; and
(c)	the Authorised Person has assessed that the individual has the relevant skills and experience to carry out these functions.
8.6.1.(2)	An Authorised Person may not appoint under ‎(1) an individual to carry out the Controlled Functions of a Licensed Director or Licensed Partner.
8.6.1.(3)	The Authorised Person must take reasonable steps to ensure that the individual complies with all the Rules applicable to Approved Persons.
8.6.1.(4)	Where an individual is appointed as an Approved Person under this Rule, the Authorised Person must notify the Regulator in writing of the name and contact details of the individual appointed.
8.6.2	Where an individual is appointed under this Rule, the Regulator may exercise any powers it would otherwise be entitled to exercise as if the individual held Approved Person status. 
8.7	Dismissal or resignation of an Approved Person
8.7.1	An Authorised Person must request the withdrawal of an Approved Person status within seven days of the Approved Person ceasing to be employed by the Authorised Person to perform a Controlled Function.
8.7.2	In requesting the withdrawal of an Approved Person status in respect of an Approved Person performing any Controlled Functions, the Authorised Person must also submit a request to the Regulator in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe. This request shall include details of any circumstances where the Authorised Person may consider that the individual is no longer fit and proper.
8.7.3	If an Approved Person is dismissed or requested to resign in accordance with Rule ‎8.7.2, a statement of the reason, or reasons, for the dismissal or resignation must be given to the Regulator by the Authorised Person.
8.7.4	If the Approved Person was acting as a trustee, the Trust Service Provider must confirm to the Regulator in writing that a new trustee has been appointed in place of the trustee in question. 
8.8	Changes relating to control
8.8.1	
8.8.1.(1)	This Rule applies, subject to ‎(2) and ‎(3), to: 
(a)	an Authorised Person or Recognised Body; or
(b)	a Person who is, or is proposing to become, a Controller specified in Rule ‎8.8.2.
8.8.1.(2)	This Chapter does not apply to a Representative Office or a Person who is a Controller of such a Representative Office.
8.8.1.(3)	A Credit Rating Agency must comply with the requirements in this Rule as if it were a non ADGM established company.
8.8.1.Guidance	The requirements in respect of notification of changes relating to control of Branches (i.e. non ADGM established companies) are set out in Rule ‎8.8.10. Although some Credit Rating Agencies may be companies established in the ADGM, such companies will only be subject to the notification requirements relating to their Controllers. Accordingly, regardless of whether a Credit Rating Agency is a company established in the ADGM or a Branch operation, it is subject to the notification requirements only and not to the requirement for prior approval by the Regulator of changes relating to its Controllers.

8.8.2	
8.8.2.(1) 	Definition of a Controller. A Controller is a Person who, either alone or with any Associate:
(a)	Holds 10% or more of the Shares in either the Authorised Person or a Holding Company of that Authorised Person;
(b)	is entitled to exercise, or controls the exercise of, 10% or more of the voting rights in either the Authorised Person or a Holding Company of that Authorised Person; or
(c)	is able to exercise significant influence over the management of the Authorised Person as a result of Holding Shares or being able to exercise voting rights in the Authorised Person or a Holding Company of that Authorised Person or having a current exercisable right to acquire such Shares or voting rights.
8.8.2.(2)	A reference in this Chapter to the term:
(a)	"Share" means:
(i)	in the case of an Authorised Person, or a Holding Company of an Authorised Person, which has a share capital, its allotted shares;
(ii)	in the case of an Authorised Person, or a Holding Company of an Authorised Person, with capital but no share capital, rights to a share in its capital; and
(iii)	in the case of an Authorised Person, or a Holding Company of an Authorised Person, without capital, any interest conferring a right to share in its profits or losses or any obligation to contribute to a share of its debt or expenses in the event of its Winding-Up; and
(b)	"Holding" means, in respect of a Person, Shares, voting rights or a right to acquire Shares or voting rights in an Authorised Person or a Holding Company of that Authorised Person held by that Person either alone or with any Associate.
8.8.2.(3)	The Regulator may make additional rules which:
(a)	provide for exemptions from the obligations to notify imposed by Rules ‎8.8.5, ‎8.8.9 and Part 10 of the FSMR; or
(b)	amend the cases in this Chapter where a person is deemed to be:
(i)	acquiring control over an Authorised Person or Recognised Body;
(ii)	increasing control over an Authorised Person or Recognised Body;
(iii)	reducing or ceasing to have control over an Authorised Person or Recognised Body;
(iv)	a Controller of an Authorised Person.   
8.8.2.(3).Guidance
8.8.2.(3).Guidance.1.	For the purposes of these Rules, the relevant definition of a Holding Company is found in the Companies Regulations. That definition describes when one Body Corporate is considered to be a Holding Company or a Subsidiary of another Body Corporate and extends that concept to the ultimate Holding Company of the Body Corporate.
8.8.2.(3).Guidance.2.	Pursuant to Rule ‎8.8.2(1)(c), a Person becomes a Controller if that Person can exert significant management influence over an Authorised Person. The ability to exert significant management influence can arise even where a Person, alone or with his Associates, controls less than 10% of the Shares or voting rights of the Authorised Person or a Holding Company of that Authorised Person. Similarly, a Person may be able to exert significant management influence where such Person does not Hold Shares or voting rights but has current exercisable rights to acquire Shares or voting rights, such as under Options.

8.8.3	Disregarded holdings. For the purposes of determining whether a Person is a Controller, any Shares, voting rights or rights to acquire Shares or voting rights that a Person Holds, either alone or with any Associate with whom they are acting in concert, in an Authorised Person or a Holding Company of that Authorised Person are disregarded if:
(1)	they are Shares held for the sole purpose of clearing and settling within a short settlement cycle;
(2)	they are Shares held in a custodial or nominee capacity and the voting rights attached to the Shares are exercised only in accordance with written instructions given to that Person by another Person; 
(3)	they are Shares representing no more than 5% of the total voting power and are Held by an Authorised Person with a Financial Services Permission to deal as principal, who:
(i)	Holds the Shares in the capacity of a market maker; and
(ii)	neither intervenes in the management of the Authorised in which it Holds the Shares, nor exerts any influence on that Authorised Person to buy the Shares or back the Share price; or 
(4)	the Person is an Authorised Person and it:
(i)	acquires the Shares as a result of an Underwriting of a Share issue or a placement of Shares on a firm commitment basis;
(ii)	does not exercise the voting rights attaching to the Shares or otherwise intervene in the management of the Issuer; and
(iii)	retains the Shares for a period less than one year.


8.8.4	Requirement for prior approval of Controllers of Domestic Firms
8.8.4.(1) 	In the case of an Authorised Person which is a Domestic Firm, a Person must not:
(a)	become a Controller; or
(b)	increase the level of control which that Person has in the Domestic Firm beyond a threshold specified in ‎(2),
unless that Person has obtained the prior written approval of the Regulator to do so.
8.8.4.(2)	For the purposes of ‎(1)‎(b), the thresholds at which the prior written approval of the Regulator is required are when the relevant Holding is increased:
(a)	from below 20% to 20% or more;
(b)	from below 30% to 30% or more; or
(c)	from below 50% to 50% or more.
8.8.4.(2).Guidance
8.8.4.(2).Guidance.1.	See Rules ‎8.8.2 and ‎8.8.3 for the circumstances in which a Person becomes a Controller of an Authorised Person.
8.8.4.(2).Guidance.2.	The Regulator recognises that Authorised Persons acting as Investment Managers may have difficulties in complying with any prior notification requirements in these Rules as a result of acquiring or disposing of listed Shares in the course of that Fund management activity. To ameliorate these difficulties, the Regulator may accept pre-notification of proposed changes in control and may grant approval of such changes for a period lasting up to a year.   

8.8.5	Approval process
8.8.5.(1) 	A Person who is required to obtain the prior written approval of the Regulator pursuant to Rule ‎8.8.4(1) must provide written notice to the Regulator in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe.
8.8.5.(2)	The written notice provided under ‎(1) must be in such form, include such information and be accompanied by such Documents as the Regulator may require. 
8.8.5.(3)	Where the Regulator receives an application under ‎(1), it may:
(a)	approve the proposed acquisition or increase in the level of control;
(b)	approve the proposed acquisition or increase in the level of control subject to such conditions as it considers appropriate; or
(c)	object to the proposed acquisition or increase in the level of control.
(4)	The Regulator may request such further information from the notice-giver as it deems necessary for the purposes of making its decision under ‎(3).   
(5)	Any approval of an application under ‎(3)(a) or ‎(b) will be effective for such period as the Regulator may specify, and subsequently vary, in writing. 
8.8.5.Guidance	
8.8.5.Guidance.1.	A Person intending to acquire or increase control in an Authorised Person should submit an application for approval in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe sufficiently in advance of the proposed acquisition to be able to obtain the Regulator approval in time for the proposed acquisition. The GPM sets out the matters which the Regulator will take into consideration when exercising its powers under Rule ‎8.8.5 to approve, object to or impose conditions of approval relating to a proposed Controller or a proposed increase in the level of control of an existing Controller.  
8.8.5.Guidance.2.	The Regulator will exercise its powers relating to Controllers in a manner proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of an Authorised Person's business, and the impact a proposed change in control would have on that Authorised Person and its Clients. For example, the Regulator would generally be less likely to impose conditions requiring a proposed acquirer of control of an Authorised Person whose financial failure would have a limited systemic impact or impact on its Clients to provide prudential support to the Authorised Person by contributing more capital. Most advisory and arranging Authorised Persons will fall into this class.
8.8.6	
8.8.6.(1) 	Where the Regulator proposes to approve a proposed acquisition or an increase in the level of control in an Authorised Person pursuant to Rule ‎8.8.5(3)(a), it must:
(a)	do so as soon as practicable and in any event within 90 days of the receipt of a duly completed application, unless a different period is considered appropriate by the Regulator and notified to the applicant in writing; and
(b)	issue to the applicant, and where appropriate to the Authorised Person, an approval notice as soon as practicable after making that decision.
8.8.6.(2)	An approval pursuant to Rule ‎8.8.5‎(3)‎(a), including a conditional approval granted by the Regulator pursuant to Rule ‎8.8.5‎(3)‎(b), is valid for a period of one year from the date of the approval, unless an extension is granted by the Regulator in writing.
8.8.6.(2).Guidance
8.8.6.(2).Guidance.1.	If the application for approval lodged with the Regulator does not contain all the required information, then the 90 day period runs from the date on which all the relevant information has been provided to the Regulator.
8.8.6.(2).Guidance.2.	If a Person who has obtained prior Regulator approval for an acquisition or an increase in the control of an Authorised Person is unable to effect the acquisition before the end of the period referred to in Rule ‎8.8.6(2), it will need to obtain fresh approval from the Regulator.

8.8.7	Objection or conditional approval process
8.8.7.(1)	Where the Regulator proposes to exercise its conditional approval or objection power pursuant to Rule ‎8.8.5(3)(b) or ‎(c) respectively, in respect of a proposed acquisition of, or an increase in the level of control in, an Authorised Person, it must, as soon as practicable and in any event within 90 days of the receipt of the duly completed application form, provide to the applicant:
(a)	a written notice stating:
(i)	the Regulator's reasons for objecting to that Person as a Controller or to the Person's proposed increase in control; and
(ii)	any proposed conditions subject to which that Person may be approved by the Regulator; and
(b)	an opportunity for the Person to make representations within 14 days of the receipt of such notice in ‎(a) or such other longer period as agreed to by the Regulator.
8.8.7.(2)	The Regulator must, as soon as practicable after receiving representations or, if no representations are received, after the expiry of the period for making representations referred to in ‎(1)‎(b), issue a final notice stating that:
(a)	the proposed objections and any conditions are withdrawn and the Person is an approved Controller;
(b)	the Person is approved as a Controller subject to conditions specified in the notice; or
(c)	the Person is not approved and therefore is an unacceptable Controller with respect to that Person becoming a Controller of, or increasing the level of control in, the Authorised Person.
8.8.7.(3)	If the Regulator decides to exercise its power under this Rule not to approve a Person as a Controller or to impose conditions on an approval, the Person may refer the matter to the Appeals Panel for review.
8.8.8	
8.8.8.(1) 	A Person who has been approved by the Regulator as a Controller of an Authorised Person subject to any conditions must comply with the relevant conditions of approval.
8.8.8.(2)	A Person who has been notified by the Regulator pursuant to Rule ‎8.8.7(2)(c) as an unacceptable Controller must not proceed with the proposed acquisition of control of the Authorised Person.
8.8.8.Guidance
8.8.8.Guidance.1.	A Person who acquires control of or increases the level of control in an Authorised Person without the prior Regulator approval or breaches a condition of approval is in breach of the Rules. See Rules ‎8.8.13 and ‎8.8.14 for the actions that the Regulator may take in such circumstances.
8.8.8.Guidance.2.	In assessing a proposed acquisition or increase in control, the Regulator may generally consider the suitability of the notice-giver, the financial soundness of the acquisition in order to ensure the sound and prudent management of the Authorised Person, and the likely influence that the notice-giver will have on the Authorised Person.
8.8.8.Guidance.3.	In determining whether to object to a proposed acquisition, the Regulator may consider:
a.	the reputation of the notice-giver or of any person who will direct the business of the Authorised Person as a result of the acquisition;
b.	the financial soundness of the notice-giver;
c.	whether the Authorised Person will be able to comply with its prudential requirements;
d.	where the Authorised Person is to become part of a Group as a result of the acquisition, whether the structure of such a Group will allow for effective supervision and the exchange of information with the Regulator where required; 
e.	whether there are reasonable grounds to suspect that money laundering or terrorist financing has been, or may be, committed in connection with the proposed acquisition; and
f.	whether the proposed acquisition is contrary to one or more of the Regulator’s objectives. 

8.8.9	Notification for decrease in the level of control of Domestic Firms
8.8.9.(1) 	A Controller of an Authorised Person which is a Domestic Firm must submit, in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe, a written notification to the Regulator where that Person:
(a)	proposes to cease being a Controller; 
(b)	proposes to decrease that Person's Holding from:
(i)	more than 50% to 50% or less;
(ii)	more than 30% to 30% or less; or 
(iii)	more than 20% to 20% or less. 
8.8.9.(2)	A written notice provided under ‎(1) must be in such form, include such information and be accompanied by such Documents as the Regulator may reasonably require.

8.8.10	Requirement for notification of changes relating to control of Branches
8.8.10.(1) 	In the case of an Authorised Person which is a Branch, a written notification to the Regulator must be submitted by a Controller or a Person proposing to become a Controller of that Authorised Person in accordance with ‎(3) in respect of any one of the events specified in ‎(2).
8.8.10.(2)	For the purposes of ‎(1), a notification to the Regulator is required when:
(a)	a Person becomes a Controller;
(b)	an existing Controller proposes to cease being a Controller; or
(c)	an existing Controller's Holding is:
(i)	increased from below 30% to 30% or more;
(ii)	increased from below 50% to 50% or more; or
(iii)	decreased from more than 50% to 50% or less.
8.8.10.(3)	The notification required under ‎(1) must be made by a Controller or Person proposing to become a Controller of a Branch in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe as soon as possible, and in any event, before making the relevant acquisition or disposal.

8.8.11	Obligations of Authorised Persons relating to its Controllers
8.8.11.(1) 	An Authorised Person must have adequate systems and controls to monitor:
(a)	any change or proposed change of its Controllers; and
(b)	any significant changes in the conduct or circumstances of existing Controllers which might reasonably be considered to impact on the fitness and propriety of the Authorised Person, or on its ability to conduct business soundly and prudently.
8.8.11.(2)	An Authorised Person must, subject to ‎(3), notify the Regulator in writing of any event specified in ‎(1) as soon as possible after becoming aware of that event.
8.8.11.(3)	An Authorised Person need not comply with the requirement in ‎(2) if it is satisfied on reasonable grounds that a proposed or existing Controller has either already obtained the prior approval of the Regulator or notified the event to the Regulator as applicable.
8.8.11.Guidance	Steps which an Authorised Person may take in order to monitor changes relating to Controllers include the monitoring of any relevant regulatory disclosures, press reports, public announcements, share registers and entitlements to vote or the control of voting rights at general meetings.
8.8.12	
8.8.12.(1) 	An Authorised Person must submit to the Regulator an annual report on its Controllers within four months of its financial year end.
8.8.12.(2)	The Authorised Person's annual report on its Controllers must include:
(a)	the name of each Controller; and
(b)	the current holding of each Controller, expressed as a percentage.
8.8.12.Guidance
8.8.12.Guidance.1.	An Authorised Person may satisfy the requirements of Rule ‎8.8.12 by submitting a corporate structure diagram containing the relevant information.
8.8.12.Guidance.2.	An Authorised Person must take account of the Holdings which the Controller, either alone or with any Associate, has in the Authorised Person or any Holding Company of the Authorised Person (see the definition of a Controller in Rule ‎8.8.2‎(1)).

8.8.13	Other Powers relating to Controllers
8.8.13.(1) 	Without limiting the generality of its other powers, the Regulator may, subject only to ‎(2), object to a Person as a Controller of an Authorised Person where such a Person:
(a)	has acquired or increased the level of control that Person has in an Authorised Person without the prior written approval of the Regulator as required under Rule ‎8.8.4;
(b)	has breached the requirement in Rule ‎8.8.8‎(1) to comply with the conditions of approval applicable to that Person; or
(c)	is no longer acceptable to the Regulator as a Controller.
8.8.13.(2)	Where the Regulator proposes to object to a Person as a Controller of an Authorised Person under ‎(1), the Regulator must provide such a Person with:
(a)	a written notice stating:
(i)	the Regulator's reasons for objecting to that Person as a Controller; and
(ii)	any proposed conditions subject to which that Person may be approved by the Regulator; and
(b)	an opportunity for the Person to make representations within 14 days of the receipt of such objections notice in ‎(a) or such other longer period as agreed to by the Regulator.
8.8.13.(3)	The Regulator must, as soon as practicable after receiving representations, or if no representations are made, after the expiry of the period for making representations referred to in ‎(2)‎(b), issue a final notice stating that:
(a)	the proposed objections and any conditions are withdrawn and the Person is an approved Controller;
(b)	the Person is approved as a Controller subject to conditions specified in the notice; or
(c)	the Person is an unacceptable Controller and accordingly, must dispose of that Person's Holdings.
8.8.13.(4)	Where the Regulator has issued a final notice imposing any conditions subject to which a Person is approved as a Controller, that Person must comply with those conditions.
8.8.13.(5)	Where the Regulator has issued a final notice declaring a Person to be an unacceptable Controller, that Person must dispose of the relevant Holdings within such period as specified in the final notice.
8.8.13.(6)	The Regulator may apply to the Court for the order of the sale or disposition of shares held in Contravention to a final notice, in accordance with ‎(5).  
8.8.13.(7)	The Regulator must also notify the Authorised Person of any decision it has made pursuant to ‎(3).
8.8.13.(8)	The Regulator may give a restriction notice directing that, Shares or voting power Held by a Controller in respect of which a final notice has been given, are subject to one or more of the following restrictions:
(a)	any agreement to transfer or a transfer of any such Shares or voting power is void; 
(b)	no voting power is to be exercisable; 
(c)	no further Shares are to be issued in pursuance of any right of the Holder of any such Shares or voting power or in pursuance of any offer made to their Holder; and
(d)	save for in instances of liquidation, no payment is to be made of any sums due in respect of any such Shares. 
8.8.13.(9)	If the Regulator decides to exercise its power under this Rule to object to a Person as a Controller, to impose conditions or restrictions on an approval or to require a Person to dispose of their Holdings, the Person may refer the matter to the Appeals Panel for review.
8.8.13.(9).Guidance	The GPM sets out the matters which the Regulator takes into consideration when exercising its powers under Rule ‎8.8.13.

8.8.14	Contraventions of the Rules under this Chapter
8.8.14.(1) 	A Person commits a Contravention of the Rules under this Chapter where it:
(a)	fails to comply with any obligation of notification under Rules ‎8.8.5 and ‎8.8.9;
(b)	makes the proposed acquisition to which the notice it has provided to the Regulator relates, prior to the receipt of any approval, whether conditional or unconditional, from the Regulator;
(c)	Contravenes any conditions imposed by the Regulator upon its giving of a conditional approval to the proposed acquisition under Rule ‎8.8.7;
(d)	makes the proposed acquisition after the period for which the Regulator has deemed the approval to be effective under Rule ‎8.8.5(5); 
(e)	breaches a direction in a restriction notice given under Rule ‎8.8.13(8); or
(f)	provides false information to the Regulator.
8.8.14.(2)	Any Contravention in ‎(1) will entitle the Regulator to exercise its powers in Part 19 of the FSMR.  

8.9	Creation of additional Cell of a Protected Cell Company or an Incorporated Cell Company for an Insurer
8.9.1	This Rule applies to Insurers that are Protected Cell Companies or Incorporated Cell Companies.
8.9.1.Guidance
8.9.1.Guidance.1.	An Insurer that is a Protected Cell Company is a company incorporated as, or converted into, a Protected Cell Company in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Regulations 2015.
8.9.1.Guidance.2.	An Insurer that is an Incorporated Cell Company is a company incorporated as, or converted into, an Incorporated Cell Company in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Regulations 2015.

8.9.2	A Protected Cell Company and an Incorporated Cell Company cannot be established in the ADGM without the consent of the Regulator.
8.9.3	An application to the Regulator in connection with the proposed establishment of a Protected Cell Company and an Incorporated Cell Company must be made in such form, and be accompanied by such Documents, as the Regulator may from time to time prescribe.
8.9.4	An Insurer that is a Protected Cell Company or an Incorporated Cell Company may not create a new Cell unless approval has been granted by the Regulator.
8.9.5	An application to the Regulator for the approval for the creation of a new Cell must be made in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe, and shall be accompanied by such Documents and information and verified in such manner, as the Regulator may require.
8.9.6	
8.9.6.(1)	The Regulator may:
(a)	grant approval;
(b)	grant approval with conditions or restrictions; or
(c)	refuse approval; 
for the creation of a new Cell.
8.9.6.(2)	The procedures in Part 21 of the FSMR apply to a decision of the Regulator under ‎(1)(b) and ‎(1)(c).
8.9.6.(3)	If the Regulator decides to exercise its power under ‎(1)‎(b) and ‎(c), the Insurer may refer the matter to the Appeals Panel for review.
8.10	Notifications
8.10.1	
8.10.1.(1) 	This Rule applies to every Authorised Person and Recognised Body, unless otherwise provided, with respect to the carrying on of Regulated Activities and any other activities whether or not financial.
8.10.1.(2)	This Rule does not apply to a Representative Office.
8.10.1.(2).Guidance
8.10.1.(2).Guidance.1.	This Chapter sets out Rules on specific events, changes or circumstances that require notification to the Regulator and outlines the process and requirements for notifications.
8.10.1.(2).Guidance.2.	The list of notifications outlined in this Chapter is not exhaustive. Other areas of the Rulebook may also detail additional notification requirements.
8.10.1.(2).Guidance.3.	Each Authorised Person, Recognised Body and its Auditors is also required under Part 16 and section 193 of the FSMR respectively, to disclose to the Regulator any matter which may indicate a breach or likely breach of, or a failure or likely failure to comply with, Regulations or Rules. Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body is also required to establish and implement systems and procedures to enable its compliance and compliance by its Auditors with notification requirements.

8.10.2	 Core information. Each Authorised Person must provide the Regulator with reasonable advance notice of a change in:
(1)	its name;
(2)	any business or trading name under which it, in the case of an Authorised Person, carries on a Regulated Activity in or from the ADGM;
(3)	the address of its principal place of business in the ADGM;
(4)	in the case of a Branch, its registered office or head office address; 
(5)	its legal structure; or
(6)	in the case of an Authorised Person, an Approved Person's name or any material matters relating to his fitness and propriety.

8.10.3	 A Domestic Firm must provide the Regulator with reasonable advance notice of the establishment or closure of a branch office anywhere outside the jurisdiction of the ADGM from which it carries on Regulated Activities.
8.10.4	When giving notice under Rule ‎8.10.3 in relation to the establishment of a branch, a Domestic Firm must at the same time submit to the Regulator a detailed business plan in relation to the activities of the proposed branch.
8.10.5	
8.10.5.(1) 	The Regulator may object to the establishment by a Domestic Firm of a branch office elsewhere outside the jurisdiction of the ADGM.
8.10.5.(2)	If the Regulator objects to the Domestic Firm establishing a branch anywhere outside the jurisdiction of the ADGM, the Domestic Firm may not proceed with establishment of such a branch.
8.10.5.(3)	The procedures in Part 21 of the FSMR apply to a decision of the Regulator under ‎(1).
8.10.5.(4)	If the Regulator decides to exercise its power under ‎(1), the Domestic Firm may refer the matter to the Appeals Panel for review.

8.10.6	Regulatory impact. Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must advise the Regulator immediately if it becomes aware, or has reasonable grounds to believe, that any of the following matters may have occurred or may be about to occur:
(1)	the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's failure to satisfy the fit and proper requirements;
(2)	any matter which could have a significant adverse effect on the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's reputation;
(3)	any matter in relation to the Authorised Person or Recognised Body which could result in serious adverse financial consequences to the ADGM Financial System or to other Authorised Persons or Recognised Bodies;
(4)	a significant breach of a Rule by the Authorised Person, Recognised Body or any of their Employees;
(5)	a breach by the Authorised Person, Recognised Body or any of their Employees of any requirement imposed by any applicable law;
(6)	any proposed restructuring, merger, acquisition, reorganisation or business expansion which could have a significant impact on the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's risk profile or resources;
(7)	any significant failure in the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's systems or controls, including a failure reported to the Authorised Person or Recognised Body by its auditor;
(8)	any action that would result in a material change in the capital adequacy or solvency of the Authorised Person; or
(9)	non compliance with Rules due to an emergency outside the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's control and the steps being taken by the Authorised Person or Recognised Body.

8.10.7	Fraud and errors. Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must notify the Regulator immediately if one of the following events arises in relation to its activities in or from the ADGM:
(a)	it becomes aware that an Employee may have committed a fraud against one of its Customers;
(b)	a serious fraud has been committed against it;
(c)	it has reason to believe that a Person is acting with intent to commit a serious fraud against it;
(d)	it identifies significant irregularities in its accounting or other records, whether or not there is evidence of fraud; or
(e)	it suspects that one of its Employees who is Connected with the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's Regulated Activities may be guilty of serious misconduct concerning his honesty or integrity.

8.10.8	Other Regulators. Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must advise the Regulator immediately of:
(a)	the granting or refusal of any application for or revocation of authorisation to carry on financial services in any jurisdiction outside the ADGM;
(b)	the granting, withdrawal or refusal of an application for, or revocation of, membership of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body of any regulated exchange or clearing house;
(c)	the Authorised Person or Recognised Body becoming aware that a Non-ADGM Financial Services Regulator has started an investigation into the affairs of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body;
(d)	the appointment of inspectors, howsoever named, by a Non-ADGM Financial Services Regulator to investigate the affairs of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body; or
(e)	the imposition of disciplinary measures or disciplinary sanctions on the Authorised Person or Recognised Body in relation to its financial services by any regulator or any regulated exchange or clearing house.
8.10.8.Guidance	The notification requirement in Rule ‎8.10.8(c) extends to investigations relating to any Employee or agent of an Authorised Person, Recognised Body or a member of its Group, provided the conduct investigated relates to or impacts on the affairs of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body.

8.10.9	Action against an Authorised Person. Each Authorised Person must notify the Regulator immediately if:
(1)	civil proceedings are brought against the Authorised Person and the amount of the claim is significant in relation to the Authorised Person’s financial resources or its reputation; or
(2)	the Authorised Person is prosecuted for, or convicted of, any offence involving fraud or dishonesty, or any penalties are imposed on it for tax evasion.

8.10.10	Winding-Up, bankruptcy and insolvency. Each Authorised Person must notify the Regulator immediately on:
(1)	the calling of a meeting to consider a resolution for Winding-Up the Authorised Person;
(2)	an application to dissolve the Authorised Person or to strike it from the register maintained by the Registration Bureau, or a comparable register in another jurisdiction;
(3)	the presentation of a petition for the Winding-Up of the Authorised Person;
(4)	the making of, or any proposals for the making of, a composition or arrangement with creditors of the Authorised Person; or
(5)	the application of any person against the Authorised Person for the commencement of any insolvency proceedings, appointment of any receiver, administrator or provisional liquidator under the law of any country, territory or jurisdiction outside the ADGM.

8.10.11	Accuracy of information. Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must take reasonable steps to ensure that all information that it provides to the Regulator in accordance with any Regulations and Rules is:
(1)	factually accurate or, in the case of estimates and judgements, fairly and properly based; and
(2)	complete, in that it should include anything of which the Regulator would reasonably expect to be notified.
8.10.12	
8.10.12.(1)	Each Authorised Person and Recognised Body must notify the Regulator immediately when it becomes aware, or has information that reasonably suggests, that it:
(a)	has or may have provided the Regulator with information which was or may have been false, misleading, incomplete or inaccurate; or
(b)	has or may have changed in a material particular.
8.10.12.(2)	Subject to ‎(3), the notification in ‎(1) must include details of the information which is or may be false or misleading, incomplete or inaccurate, or has or may have changed and an explanation why such information was or may have been provided and the correct information.
8.10.12.(3)	If the correct information in ‎(2) cannot be submitted with the notification, it must be submitted as soon as reasonably possible.
8.10.13	In the case of an Insurer which is a Protected Cell Company or an Incorporated Cell Company, an Insurer must advise the Regulator immediately when it becomes aware of any actual or prospective significant change in the type or scale of the business conducted through a Cell, or the ownership of the Cell Shares.


8.10.14	Information relating to corporate governance and Remuneration
8.10.14.(1)	Subject to ‎(2), an Authorised Person must provide to the Regulator notice of any significant changes to its corporate governance framework or the Remuneration structure or strategy as soon as practicable.
8.10.14.(2)	An Authorised Person which is a Branch must provide notice of any significant changes to its corporate governance framework or the Remuneration structure or strategy only if the changes are relevant to the activities and operations of the Branch.
8.10.14.Guidance	
8.10.14.Guidance.1.	The purpose of these notifications is to ensure that the Regulator is informed of any significant changes to the Authorised Person's corporate governance framework and Remuneration structure and strategies.
8.10.14.Guidance.2.	Significant changes that the Regulator expects Authorised Persons to notify to the Regulator pursuant to Rule ‎8.10.14 generally include:
a.	any major changes to the composition of the Governing Body;
b.	any changes relating to Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions, such as their removal or new appointments or changes in their reporting lines; and
c.	significant changes to the Remuneration structure that apply to the members of the Governing Body, senior management, Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions and Major Risk-Taking Employees.
8.10.14.Guidance.3.	The Regulator expects Branches to provide to the Regulator notification of significant changes that are relevant to the Branch operations.

8.11	Provision of notifications and reports
8.11.1	
8.11.1.(1) 	Unless a Rule states otherwise, each Authorised Person must ensure that each notification or report it provides to the Regulator is:
(a)	in writing and contains the Authorised Person’s name and Financial Services Permission number; and
(b)	addressed for the attention of the department relevant to Authorised Persons and delivered to the Regulator by:
(i)	post to the current address of the Regulator;
(ii)	hand delivery to the current address of the Regulator;
(iii)	electronic mail to an address provided by the Regulator; or
(iv)	fax to a fax number provided by the Regulator.
8.11.1.(2)	In ‎(1)‎(b) confirmation of receipt must be obtained.

8.12	Requirement to provide a report
8.12.1	This Rule applies to every Authorised Person and Recognised Body other than a Representative Office.
8.12.1.Guidance	
8.12.1.Guidance.1.	Under section 203 of the FSMR, the Regulator may require an Authorised Person or Recognised Body to provide it with a report on any matter. The Person appointed to make a report must be a Person nominated or approved by the Regulator. This Person will be referred to throughout the Rulebook as a "Skilled Person".
8.12.1.Guidance.2.	When requesting a report under section 203 of the FSMR, the Regulator may take into consideration the matters set out in the GPM.

8.12.2	Skilled person	
8.12.2.(1) 	The Regulator may, by sending a notice in writing, require an Authorised Person or Recognised Body to provide a report by a Skilled Person. The Regulator may require the report to be in whatever form it specifies in the notice.
8.12.2.(2)	The Regulator will give written notification to the Authorised Person or Recognised Body of the purpose of its report, its scope, the timetable for completion and any other relevant matters.
8.12.2.(3)	The Skilled Person must be appointed by the Authorised Person or Recognised Body and be nominated or approved by the Regulator.
8.12.2.(4)	The Authorised Person or Recognised Body must pay for the services of the Skilled Person.
8.12.2.Guidance	
8.12.2.Guidance.1.	If the Regulator decides to nominate the Skilled Person, it will notify the Authorised Person or Recognised Body accordingly. Alternatively, if the Regulator is content to approve the Skilled Person selected by the Authorised Person or Recognised Body it will notify it of that fact.
8.12.2.Guidance.2.	The Regulator will only approve a Skilled Person that in the Regulator's opinion has the necessary skills to make a report on the matter concerned.

8.12.3	When an Authorised Person or Recognised Body appoints a Skilled Person, the Authorised Person or Recognised Body must ensure that:
8.12.3.(1)	the Skilled Person co operates with the Regulator; and
8.12.3.(2)	the Authorised Person or Recognised Body provides all assistance that the Skilled Person may reasonably require.

8.12.4	When an Authorised Person or Recognised Body appoints a Skilled Person, the Authorised Person or Recognised Body must, in the contract with the Skilled Person:
(1)	require and permit the Skilled Person to co operate with the Regulator in relation to the Authorised Person or Recognised Body and to communicate to the Regulator information on, or his opinion on, matters of which he has, or had, become aware in his capacity as a Skilled Person reporting on the Authorised Person or Recognised Body in the following circumstances:
(i)	the Skilled Person reasonably believes that, as regards the Authorised Person or Recognised Body concerned:
(A)	there is or has been, or may be or may have been, a Contravention of any relevant requirement that applies to the Authorised Person or Recognised Body concerned; and
(B)	that the Contravention may be of material significance to the Regulator in determining whether to exercise, in relation to the Authorised Person or Recognised Body concerned, any powers conferred on the Regulator under any provision of the FSMR;
(ii)	the Skilled Person reasonably believes that the information on, or his opinion on, those matters may be of material significance to the Regulator in determining whether the Authorised Person or Recognised Body concerned satisfies and will continue to satisfy the fit and proper requirements; or
(iii)	the Skilled Person reasonably believes that the Authorised Person is not, may not be, or may cease to be, a going concern;
(2)	require the Skilled Person to prepare a report within the time specified by the Regulator; and
(3)	waive any duty of confidentiality owed by the Skilled Person to the Authorised Person or Recognised Body which might limit the provision of information or opinion by that Skilled Person to the Regulator in accordance with ‎(1) or ‎(2).

8.12.5	An Authorised Person and Recognised Body must ensure that the contract required under Rule ‎8.12.4:
(1)	is governed by the Regulations and Rules of the ADGM;
(2)	expressly provides that the Regulator has a right to enforce the provisions included in the contract under Rule ‎8.12.4;
(3)	expressly provides that, in proceedings brought by the Regulator for the enforcement of those provisions, the skilled person is not to have available by way of defence, set off or counter claim any matter that is not relevant to those provisions;
(4)	if the contract includes an arbitration agreement, expressly provides that the Regulator is not, in exercising the right in ‎(2) to be treated as a party to, or bound by, the arbitration agreement; and
(5)	provides that the provisions included in the contract under Rule ‎8.12.4 are irrevocable and may not be varied or rescinded without the Regulator's consent.

8.13	Imposing Restrictions on an Authorised Person or Recognised Body's business or on an Authorised Person or Recognised Body's dealing with property

8.13.1	The Regulator has the power to impose a prohibition or requirement on an Authorised Person or Recognised Body in relation to its business or in relation to its dealing with property in circumstances where:
(1)	there is a reasonable likelihood that it will Contravene a requirement of any Regulations or Rules;
(2)	it has contravened a relevant requirement and there is a reasonable likelihood that the Contravention will continue or be repeated;
(3)	there is loss, risk of loss, or other adverse effect on its Customers;
(4)	an investigation is being carried out in relation to an act or omission by it that constitutes or may constitute a Contravention of any applicable Regulation or Rule;
(5)	an enforcement action has commenced against it for a Contravention of any applicable Regulation or Rule;
(6)	civil proceedings have commenced against it;
(7)	it or any of its Employees may be or has been engaged in Market Abuse;
(8)	it is subject to a merger;
(9)	a meeting has been called to consider a resolution for its Winding-Up;
(10)	an application has been made for the commencement of any insolvency proceedings or the appointment of any receiver, administrator or provisional liquidator under the law of any country, territory or jurisdiction outside the ADGM for it; 
(11)	there is a notification to dissolve it or strike it from the register maintained by the Registration Bureau, or a comparable register in another jurisdiction;
(12)	there is information to suggest that it is involved in Financial Crime; or
(13)	the Regulator considers that this prohibition or requirement is necessary to ensure Customers, Authorised Persons, Recognised Bodies, or the ADGM Financial System, are not adversely affected.
 
9.	REPRESENTATIVES OFFICES
9.1	Application 
9.1.1	
9.1.1.(1)	This Chapter applies to every Person who carries on, or intends to carry on, the Regulated Activity of Operating a Representative Office in or from the ADGM.
9.1.1.(2)	Unless otherwise stated, the Rules apply to a Representative Office only with respect to activities carried on from an establishment maintained by it in the ADGM.
9.1.1.Guidance
9.1.1.Guidance.1.	Because of the limited nature of the Regulated Activity of Operating a Representative Office, much of the ADGM Rulebook has been disapplied for Representative Offices. While most of the key provisions applying to a Representative Office are contained in these Rules, a Representative Office should ensure that it complies with and has regard to other relevant provisions in other applicable ADGM Rulebooks including AML. The application section of each Rulebook sets out which chapters, if any, apply to a Representative Office.
9.1.1.Guidance.2.	A Representative Office should also ensure that it complies with and has regard to relevant provisions of the FSMR and MKT. FSMR gives the Regulator a number of important powers in relation to Authorised Persons including powers of supervision and enforcement.
9.1.1.Guidance.3.	The Regulated Activity of Operating a Representative Office is defined in Schedule 1 of the FSMR.  By virtue of this Schedule, the Regulated Activity of Operating a Representative Office is a stand-alone Regulated Activity.
9.1.1.Guidance.4.	Whilst much Representative Office activity will not involve a continuing relationship with the Persons to whom marketing is directed, where such a relationship is necessary, the Representative Office will need to be careful to ensure that it does not carry on any activities other than the activity of Operating a Representative Office.
9.1.1.Guidance.5.	A Representative Office which undertakes a Regulated Activity which is outside the scope of its Financial Services Permission will be in breach of Part 4 of the FSMR. If the Regulator believes that a Representative Office is in breach of Part 4 of the FSMR, it may take steps which may include withdrawal of authorisation and formal enforcement action under the FSMR.

9.2	Financial Services Permission application
9.2.1	A Person, referred to in this chapter as an applicant, who intends to carry on the Regulated Activity of Operating a Representative Office must apply to the Regulator for a Financial Services Permission in such form as the Regulator shall prescribe.
9.2.2	
9.2.2.(1) 	An application to Operate a Representative Office may only be made by a Person who is:
(a)	incorporated; and
(b)	regulated by a Non-ADGM Financial Services Regulator
in a jurisdiction other than the ADGM.
9.2.2.(2)	The Regulator will not consider an application for the activity of Operating a Representative Office from an applicant who intends to operate in the ADGM as a Domestic Firm.

9.3	Consideration and assessment of applications
9.3.1	An applicant will only be authorised to carry on the Regulated Activity of Operating a Representative Office if the Regulator is satisfied that the applicant is fit and proper to hold a Financial Services Permission. In making this assessment the Regulator may consider:
(1)	whether the applicant is subject to supervision by a Non-ADGM Financial Services Regulator;
(2)	whether the applicant’s Non-ADGM Financial Services Regulator in its home state has been made aware of the proposed application and has expressed itself as having no objection to the establishment by the applicant of a Representative Office in the ADGM; and
(3)	any other relevant matters.

9.3.1.Guidance	The GPM sets out matters which the Regulator takes into consideration when making an assessment of the kind under Rule ‎9.3.1. 

9.3.2	In relation to the assessment under Rule ‎9.3.1:
(1)	the applicant must demonstrate to the Regulator’s satisfaction that it is fit and proper;
(2)	the applicant must demonstrate to the Regulator’s satisfaction that its Principal Representative is fit and proper;
(3)	the Regulator will consider any matter which may harm or may have harmed the integrity or the reputation of the Regulator or the ADGM;
(4)	the Regulator will consider the activities of the applicant and the associated risks, and accumulation of risks, that those activities pose to the Regulator’s objectives described under section 1(3) of the FSMR; and
(5)	the Regulator will consider the cumulative effect of factors which, if taken individually, may be regarded as insufficient to give reasonable cause to doubt the fitness and propriety of an applicant.

9.3.3	A Representative Office applying to change the scope of its Financial Services Permission, or to have a condition or restriction varied or withdrawn, must provide the Regulator with written details of the proposed changes.

9.3.3.Guidance	A Representative Office applying to change the scope of its Financial Services Permission should bear in mind that it may have to change its legal structure. The process will involve a fundamental review of the Representative Office by the Regulator to ascertain whether the Representative Office meets all the relevant criteria to enable the proposed change in scope of its Financial Services Permission.

9.3.4	For the purposes of IFR and Schedule 1 of the FSMR, a Representative Office will not be taken to be holding itself out as conducting Islamic Financial Business in or from the ADGM in circumstances where it:
(1)	does not represent that it provides, in or from the ADGM, any services that are in accordance with Shari’a; and
(2)	acts within the scope of its Financial Services Permission, that is, it does not carry on in or from the ADGM a Regulated Activity other than Operating a Representative Office.

9.3.4.Guidance	IFR and Schedule 1 of the FSMR contain a prohibition against an Authorised Person holding itself out as conducting Islamic Financial Business without first obtaining a Financial Services Permission. An Islamic Financial Institution may operate a Representative Office in the ADGM but it is deemed not to be conducting Islamic Financial Business through its Representative Office. This is because of the limited nature of the financial services activity it is permitted to carry on and because it does not enter into client relationships in the ADGM. Accordingly, there is no requirement to obtain an appropriate Financial Services Permission and IFR does not apply.

9.4	Withdrawal of a Financial Services Permission
9.4.1	A Representative Office seeking to have its Financial Services Permission withdrawn must submit a request in writing stating:
(1)	the reasons for the request;
(2)	that it has ceased or will cease to carry on the Regulated Activity of Operating a Representative Office in or from the ADGM; and
(3)	the date on which it ceased or will cease to carry on the Regulated Activity of Operating a Representative Office in or from the ADGM.
9.4.1.Guidance	The Regulator may act on its own initiative to withdraw a Representative Office’s Financial Services Permission. 

9.5	Application of core principles
9.5.1	
9.5.1.(1) 	The four Principles for Representative Offices set out in ‎9.6 apply to every 	Representative Office in accordance with Rule ‎9.1.1. 
9.5.1.(1).Guidance	
9.5.1.(1).Guidance.1.	Under Rule ‎9.1.1(2), the principles apply, unless otherwise stated, only to the Representative Office in the ADGM and not to the institution as a whole.
9.5.1.(1).Guidance.2. 	The Principles for Representative Offices have the status of Rules and are a general statement of fundamental regulatory requirements which apply alongside the other Rules including in relation to new or unforeseen situations which may not be covered elsewhere by a specific Rule. Rules in other areas of this Rulebook build upon these fundamental principles. Consequently the Rules and Guidance elsewhere should not be seen as exhausting the implications of the Principles.
9.5.1.(1).Guidance.3. 	Breaching a Principle for Representative Offices makes a Representative Office liable to disciplinary action, and may indicate that it is no longer fit and proper to carry on a Regulated Activity or to hold a Financial Services Permission. The Regulator may consider withdrawing the Financial Services Permission on that basis.
9.5.1.(1).Guidance.4. 	The onus will be on the Regulator to show that the Representative Office has been at fault in some way, taking into account the standard of conduct required under the Principle in question. 

9.6	Principles for Representative Offices   

9.6.1	Principle 1 - Integrity. A Representative Office must observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing.

9.6.2	Principle 2 – Due skill, care and diligence. In conducting its business activities a Representative Office must act with due skill, care and diligence.

9.6.3	Principle 3 – Resources. A Representative Office must maintain and be able to demonstrate the existence of adequate resources to conduct and manage its affairs.

9.6.4	Principle 4 – Relations with Regulators. A Representative Office must deal with Regulators in an open and cooperative manner and keep the Regulator promptly informed of significant events or anything else relating to the Representative Office of which the Regulator would reasonably expect to be notified.

9.7	General provisions 
9.7.1	A Representative Office must have a place of business within the geographical boundaries of the ADGM.
9.7.2	A Representative Office must not:
(1)	 share an office with another Authorised Person;
(2)	represent anyone other than itself or a member of its Group; or
(3)	permit any staff member to be an Employee of another Authorised Person or Recognised Body.
9.7.2.Guidance	The Regulator would generally not consider a Representative Office to be sharing an office with an Authorised Person if that Representative Office were located in serviced offices which were also the place of business of an Authorised Person.
9.8	Fitness and Propriety 
9.8.1	A Representative Office must at all times be fit and proper to hold a Financial Services Permission. 
9.8.2	
9.8.2.(1) 	A Representative Office must at all times have a Principal Representative who is 	resident in the U.A.E. and who has satisfied the Regulator as to fitness and 	propriety.
9.8.2.(2)	If the Principal Representative leaves the employment of a Representative Office, the Representative Office must designate a successor as soon as possible, and in any event within 28 days.
9.8.2.(3)	If the Regulator considers that a Principal Representative designated under ‎(1) or ‎(2) is not fit and proper to fulfil the role for which he has been designated, it will give the Representative Office written notice to this effect.
9.8.2.(4)	On receipt of a notice under ‎(3), a Representative Office must within 28 days designate a new Principal Representative and notify the Regulator accordingly.
9.8.3	A Representative Office must ensure, as far as reasonably practical, that its Employees are fit proper. 
9.8.3.Guidance	
9.8.3.Guidance.1.	The GPM sets out matters which the Regulator takes into consideration when making an assessment of the kind under Rule ‎9.8.3.
9.8.3.Guidance.2. 	Where a Representative Office is no longer fit and proper or where its Principal Representative is no longer fit and proper, it will be in breach of these Rules and the Regulator may take steps to withdraw its Financial Services Permission. The GPM sets out matters which the Regulator takes into consideration when assessing the fitness and propriety of a Principal Representative.

9.9	Dealing with property
9.9.1	A Representative Office must not hold or control money or other property belonging to another Person except to the extent that this is necessary to deal with its ordinary business operating expenses.
9.10	Solvency
9.10.1	A Representative Office must notify the Regulator immediately upon becoming aware that it is unlikely to remain solvent in the near future or that it is insolvent. 
9.10.1.Guidance	The requirement to notify is in respect of the institution of which the Representative Office forms a part.
9.11	Disclosure of regulatory status
9.11.1	A Representative Office must not:
(1)	 hold itself out as able to carry on a Regulated Activity other than Operating a Representative Office; or
(2)	 otherwise misrepresent its status expressly or by implication.
9.11.2	
9.11.2.(1) 	A Representative Office must take reasonable care to ensure that every key 	business Document which is in connection with the Representative Office 	carrying on the Regulated Activity of Operating a Representative Office includes 	one of 	the disclosures under this Rule.
9.11.2.(2)	A key business Document includes letterhead whether issued by post, fax or electronic means, written promotional materials, business cards, and websites but does not include compliment slips, or text messages.
9.11.2.(3)	The disclosure required under ‎(1) is that the Representative Office is regulated by the Regulator as a Representative Office.
9.11.3	The Regulator’s logo must not be reproduced by a Representative Office without express written permission from the Regulator, and can only be used in accordance with any conditions for use.
9.12	Clear, fair and not misleading

9.12.1	General. When communicating information to a Person in relation to a financial product or financial service, a Representative Office must take reasonable steps to ensure that the communication is clear, fair and not misleading.
9.12.2	General. A Representative Office must not, in any form of communication with a Person, attempt to limit or avoid any duty or liability it may have to that Person or any other Person under the FSMR, MKT or any other relevant legislation.

9.12.3	Marketing Material. In this Rule, "Marketing Material" means any material communicated to a Person in the course of marketing financial services or financial products or effecting introductions. 
9.12.4	
9.12.4.(1) 	A Representative Office must ensure that any Marketing Material communicated 	to a Person contains the following information:
(a)	 the name of the Representative Office communicating the Marketing Material and on whose behalf the Marketing Material is being communicated;
(b)	the Representative Office’s regulatory status as required under Rule ‎9.11.1; and
(c)	if the Marketing Material is directed at a specific class or category of investor, a clear statement to that effect and that no other Person should act upon it.
9.12.4.(2)	If the Marketing Material is in the form of an insurance proposal, banking services proposal, Prospectus or other offering Document, which is capable of acceptance in due course, it must contain in a prominent position, or have attached to it, a statement that clearly:
(a)	 describes the foreign jurisdiction and the legislation in that jurisdiction that applies to the financial product;
(b)	states the name of the relevant Non-ADGM Financial Services Regulator in that jurisdiction;
(c)	 describes the regulatory status accorded to the financial product by that regulator; and
(d)	includes the following warning:
"This document relates to a financial product which is not subject to any form of regulation or approval by the Regulator. 
The Regulator has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any Prospectus or other Documents in connection with this financial product. Accordingly, the Regulator has not approved this document or any other associated Documents nor taken any steps to verify the information set out in this document, and has no responsibility for it.
The financial product to which this document relates may be illiquid and/or subject to restrictions on its resale. Prospective purchasers should conduct their own due diligence on the financial product.
If you do not understand the contents of this document you should consult an authorised financial adviser".
9.12.4.(3)	A Representative Office must not distribute such marketing material if it becomes aware that the Person offering the financial product or financial service to which the Marketing Material relates is in breach of a regulatory or legal requirement that applies to that Person in relation to that product or service.
9.12.5	A Representative Office must take reasonable steps to ensure that no Person communicates or otherwise uses the Marketing Material on behalf of the Representative Office in a manner that amounts to a breach of the requirements in this Rule.
Past performance and forecasts
9.12.6	A Representative Office must ensure that any Marketing Material containing information or representations relating to past performance, or any future forecast based on past performance or other assumptions, which is provided to a Person is clear, fair and not misleading and contains a prominent warning that past performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future results.
9.13	Record keeping
9.13.1	A Representative Office must, for a minimum of six years, maintain sufficient records in relation to each activity and function of the Representative Office. These must include, where applicable any Marketing Material (as defined under Rule ‎9.12.3) issued, distributed or otherwise communicated by, or on behalf of, the Representative Office.
9.14	Communication with the Regulator
9.14.1	A Representative Office must ensure that any communication with the Regulator is conducted in the English language.
9.15	Regulatory Processes

9.15.1	Notifications. A Representative Office must notify the Regulator as soon as reasonably practical of any change in its:
(1)	name;
(2)	legal status;
(3)	Controller(s); or
(4)	address.
9.15.2	A Representative Office must notify the Regulator as soon as reasonably practical of:
(1)	any breach of a Rule or of a provision of Regulations or Rules by the Representative Office; and
(2)	any materially adverse information which would on reasonable grounds be considered likely to affect the fitness and propriety of the Representative Office or Principal Representative.
Lead regulation
9.15.3	If requested by the Regulator, a Representative Office must provide the Regulator with information that it or another member of its Group has provided to a Non-ADGM Financial Services Regulator.
9.15.3.Guidance	Under sections 215 to 217 of the FSMR the Regulator may exercise its powers for the purpose of assisting other Regulators or agencies. 

APP1	BEST PRACTICE RELATING TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION
A1.1	Best practice relating to corporate governance
A1.1.Guidance	Roles of the Governing Body and the senior management
A1.1.Guidance.1.	Roles of the Governing Body and the senior management. The Governing Body should adopt a rigorous process for setting and approving and overseeing the implementation of, the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's overall business objectives and risk strategies, taking into account the long term financial safety and soundness of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body as a whole, and the protection of its Customers and stakeholders. These objectives and strategies should be adequately documented and properly communicated to the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's senior management, Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions (such as the heads of risk management and compliance) and all the other relevant Employees. Senior management should ensure the effective implementation of such strategies in carrying out the day to day management of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's business.
A1.1.Guidance.2.	Roles of the Governing Body and the senior management. The Governing Body, with the support of the senior management, should take a lead in setting the "tone at the top", including by setting the fundamental corporate values that should be pursued by the Authorised Person or Recognised Body. These should, to the extent possible, be supported by professional standards and codes of ethics that set out acceptable and unacceptable conduct. Such professional standards and codes of ethics should be clearly communicated to those individuals involved in the conduct of business of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body.
A1.1.Guidance.3.	Roles of the Governing Body and the senior management. The Governing Body should review the overall business objectives and strategies at appropriate intervals and in any event, at least annually to ensure that they remain suitable in light of any changes in the internal or external business and operating conditions. The Governing Body should also approve the approach and oversee the implementation of key policies pertaining to risk identification and management, capital and liquidity plans, compliance policies and obligations, and the internal control systems.
A1.1.Guidance.4.	Roles of the Governing Body and the senior management. The Governing Body should also ensure that the senior management is effectively discharging the day to day management of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's business in accordance with the business objectives and strategies that have been set or approved by the Governing Body. For this purpose, the Governing Body should ensure that there are clear and objective performance goals and measures (and an objective assessment against such criteria at reasonable intervals), for the Authorised Person, Recognised Body and the members of their Governing Bodies and the senior management to ascertain whether the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's business objectives and risk strategies are implemented effectively and as intended.

A1.1.Guidance.5.	Internal governance of the Governing Body. The Governing Body should also ensure that the senior management is responsible for carrying out regular stress testing on credit, operational, market, and liquidity risks. The Governing Body should annually review the stress scenarios and take action to address any perceived issues arising from those reviews.
A1.1.Guidance.6.	Internal governance of the Governing Body. The Governing Body should have appropriate practices and procedures for its own internal governance, and ensure that these are followed, and periodically reviewed to ensure their effectiveness and adequacy. These policies and procedures should cover a formal and transparent process for nomination, selection, and removal of the members of the Governing Body (see the GPM), and a specified term of office as appropriate to the roles and responsibilities of the member, particularly to ensure the objectivity of his decision making and judgment. Appropriate succession planning should also form part of the Governing Body's internal governance practices.
A1.1.Guidance.7.	Internal governance of the Governing Body The Governing Body should meet sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively. There should be a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision. The working procedures of the Governing Body should be well defined.
A1.1.Guidance.8.	Internal governance of the Governing Body. The Governing Body should also ensure that when assessing the performance of the members of the Governing Body and its Senior Managers and Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions, the independence and objectivity of that process is achieved through appropriate mechanisms, such as the assignment of the performance assessment to an independent member of the Governing Body or a committee of the Governing Body comprising a majority of independent members. See the GPM for the independence criteria for Authorised Persons and the GPM for the independence criteria for Recognised Bodies.

A1.1.Guidance.9.	Committees of the Governing Body. To support the effective discharge of its responsibilities, the Governing Body should establish its committees as appropriate. The committees that a Governing Body may commonly establish, depending on the nature, scale and complexity of its business and operations, include the audit, Remuneration, ethics/compliance, nominations and risk management committees. Where committees are appointed, they should have clearly defined mandates, authority to carry out their respective functions, and the degree of independence and objectivity as appropriate to the role of the committee. If the functions of any committees are combined, the Governing Body should ensure such a combination does not compromise the integrity or effectiveness of the functions so combined. In all cases, the Governing Body remains ultimately responsible for the matters delegated to any such committees.

A1.1.Guidance.10.	Independence and objectivity. The Governing Body should establish clear and objective independence criteria which should be met by a sufficient number of members of the Governing Body to promote objectivity and independence in decision making by the Governing Body. See the GPM for independence criteria.

A1.1.Guidance.11.	Powers of the Governing Body. To be able to discharge its role and responsibilities properly, the Governing Body should have adequate and well defined powers, which are clearly set out either in the legislation or as part of the constituent Documents of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body (such as the constitution, articles of incorporation and organisational rules). These should, at a minimum, include the power to obtain timely and comprehensive information relating to the management of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body, including direct access to relevant persons within the organisation for obtaining information such as its senior management and Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions (such as the head of compliance, risk management or internal audit).

A1.1.Guidance.12.	Role of user committees. A Recognised Body should consider all relevant stakeholders' interests, including those of its Members and other participants, and Issuers, in making major decisions, such as those relating to its system's design, overall business strategy and rules and procedures. A Recognised Body which has cross border operations should ensure that full range of views across jurisdictions in which it operates is appropriately considered in its decision making process.
A1.1.Guidance.13.	Role of user committees. In some instances, a Recognised Body may be required under the applicable Rules to undertake public consultation in relation to certain matters, such as any proposed amendments to its Business Rules under MIR Rule 2.11.
A1.1.Guidance.14.	Role of user committees. Effective mechanisms for obtaining stakeholder input to the Recognised Body's decision making process, including where such input is mandatory, include the establishment of, and consultation with, user committees. As opinions among interested parties are likely to differ, a Recognised Body should have clear processes for identifying and appropriately managing the diversity of stakeholder views and any conflicts of interest between stakeholders and the Recognised Body.
A1.1.Guidance.15.	Role of user committees. Where a Recognised Body establishes user committees to obtain stakeholder input to its decision making, to enable such committees to be effective, a Recognised Body should structure such committees to:
a.	have adequate representation of the Recognised Body's Members and other participants, and stakeholders including Issuers. The other stakeholders of a Recognised Body may include Clients of its Members or participants, custodians and other service providers;
b.	have direct access to the members of the Recognised Body's Governing Body and members of the senior management as appropriate;
c.	not be subject to any direct or indirect influence by the senior management of the Recognised Body in carrying out their functions; 
d.	have clear terms of reference (mandates) which include matters on which the advice of user committees will be sought. For example, the criteria for selecting Members, setting service levels and pricing structures and for assessing the impact on Members and other stakeholders of any proposed material changes to the Recognised Body's existing arrangements (MIR Rule 2.11) and any amendments to its Business Rules (MIR Rule 2.11); and
e.	have adequate internal governance arrangements (such as the regularity of committee meetings and the quorum and other operational procedures).

A1.2	Best practice relating to Remuneration
A1.2.Guidance

A1.2.Guidance.1.	Development and monitoring of the Remuneration structure. To ensure that the Remuneration structure and strategies of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body are appropriate to the nature, scale and complexity of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's business, the Governing Body should take account of the risks to which the Authorised Person or Recognised Body could be exposed as a result of the conduct or behaviour of its Employees. The Governing Body should play an active role in developing the Remuneration strategy and policies of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body. A Remuneration committee of the Governing Body could play an important role in the development of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's Remuneration structure and strategy.
A1.2.Guidance.2.	Development and monitoring of the Remuneration structure. For this purpose, particularly where Remuneration structure and strategies contain performance based Remuneration (see also Guidance points 7 and 8 below), consideration should be given to various elements of the Remuneration structure such as:
a.	the ratio and balance between the fixed and variable components of Remuneration and any other benefits;
b.	the nature of the duties and functions performed by the relevant Employees and their seniority within the Authorised Person or Recognised Body;
c.	the assessment criteria against which performance based components of Remuneration are to be awarded; and
d.	the integrity and objectivity of the process of performance assessment against the set criteria.
A1.2.Guidance.3.	Development and monitoring of the Remuneration structure. Generally, not only the senior management but also the Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions should be involved in the Remuneration policy setting and monitoring process to ensure the integrity and objectivity of the process.

A1.2.Guidance.4.	Who should be covered by Remuneration policy. An Authorised Person or Recognised Body's Remuneration policy should, at a minimum, cover those specified in Rule ‎3.3.42(1)(c). Accordingly, the members of the Governing Body, the senior management, the Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions and any Major Risk-Taking Employees should be included in the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's Remuneration policy. With the exception of the 'senior management', all the other three categories attract their own definitions. Although the expression "senior management" carries its natural meaning, Rule ‎3.3.41(3) describes the senior management's role as the "day to day management of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's business…". Guidance point 3 under Rule ‎3.3.3 gives further clarification as to who may perform senior management functions.

A1.2.Guidance.5.	Remuneration of Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions. Any performance based component of Remuneration of Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions as well as other Employees undertaking activities under the direction and supervision of those Persons should not be linked to the performance of any business units which are subject to their control or oversight. For example, where risk and compliance functions are embedded in a business unit, a clear distinction should be drawn between the Remuneration structure applicable to those Persons Undertaking Key Control Functions and the Employees undertaking activities under their direction and supervision on the one hand and the other Employees in the business unit on the other hand. This may be achieved by separating the pools from which Remuneration is paid to the two groups of Employees, particularly where such Remuneration comprises performance based variable Remuneration.

A1.2.Guidance.6.	Use of variable Remuneration. Where an Authorised Person or Recognised Body includes in its Remuneration structure performance based variable components (such as bonuses, equity participation rights such as share based awards or other benefits), especially if they form a significant portion of the overall Remuneration structure, or Remuneration of any particular Employees or class of Employees, the Governing Body should ensure that there are appropriate checks and balances relating to their award. This is because, while such performance based Remuneration is an effective tool in aligning the interests of the Employees with the interests of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body, if used without necessary checks and balances, it could lead to inappropriate risk taking by Employees.
A1.2.Guidance.7.	Use of variable Remuneration. Therefore, the Governing Body should, when using any performance based variable component in the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's Remuneration structure, ensure that:
a.	the overall Remuneration structure contains an appropriate mix of fixed and variable components. For example, if the fixed component of Remuneration of an Employee is very small relative to the variable (e.g. bonus) component, it may become difficult for the Authorised Person or Recognised Body to reduce or eliminate bonuses even in a poor performing financial year;
b.	there are clear and objective criteria for allocating performance based Remuneration (see below in Guidance point 8);
c.	there are appropriate adjustments for the material 'current' and 'future' risks associated with the performance of the relevant Employee, as the time horizon in which risks could manifest themselves may vary. For example, where practicable, the measurement of performance should be set in a multi year framework. If this is not practicable, there should be deferral of vesting of the benefits or retention or claw back arrangements applicable to such components as appropriate;
d.	there are appropriate prudential limits, consistent with the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's capital management strategy and its ability to maintain a sound capital base taking account of the internal capital targets or regulatory capital requirements;
e.	in the case of Employees involved in the distribution of financial products whose Remuneration is Commission based, there are adequate controls and monitoring to mitigate marketing which is solely Commission driven; and
f.	the use of guaranteed bonuses is generally avoided as such payments are not consistent with sound risk management and performance based rewards. However, there may be circumstances where such guaranteed bonuses may be paid to attract new Employees (for example to compensate bonuses forfeited from the previous employer).

A1.2.Guidance.8.	Performance assessment. The performance criteria applicable, particularly relating to the variable components of Remuneration, as well as the performance assessment against such criteria, contribute to the effectiveness of the use of performance based Remuneration. Therefore, the Governing Body should ensure that such criteria:
a.	are clearly defined and objectively measurable;
b.	include not only financial but also non financial elements as appropriate (such as compliance with regulation and internal rules, achievement of risk management goals as well as compliance with market conduct standards and fair treatment of Customers);
c.	take account of not only the individual's performance, but also the performance of the business unit concerned and the overall results of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body and, if applicable, the Group; and
d.	do not treat growth or volume as an element in isolation from other performance measurements included in the criteria.

A1.2.Guidance.9.	Severance payments. Where an Authorised Person or Recognised Body provides discretionary payouts on termination of employment ("severance payments", also called "golden parachutes"), such payment should generally be subject to appropriate limits or shareholder approval. In any case, such payouts should be aligned with the Authorised Person or Recognised Body's overall financial condition and performance over an appropriate time horizon and should not be payable in the case of failure or threatened failure of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body, particularly to an individual whose actions may have contributed to the failure or potential failure of the Authorised Person or Recognised Body.

APP2	TRADE REPOSITORY
A2.1	Requirements applicable to Trade Repositories

A2.1.1	Disclosure of market data by Trade Repositories. A Trade Repository must provide data in line with regulatory and industry expectations to relevant regulatory authorities and the public. Such information must be comprehensive and at a level of detail sufficient to enhance market transparency and support other public policy objectives.
A2.1.1.Guidance	
A2.1.1.Guidance.1.	At a minimum, a Trade Repository should provide aggregate data on open positions and transaction volumes and values and categorised data (for example, aggregated breakdowns of trading counterparties, Reference Entities, or currency breakdowns of products), as available and appropriate, to the public.
A2.1.1.Guidance.2.	Relevant regulatory authorities should be given access to additional data recorded in a Trade Repository, including participant level data, as relevant to the respective mandates and legal responsibilities of the relevant regulatory authority (such as market regulation and surveillance, oversight of exchanges, and prudential supervision or prevention of market misconduct).

A2.1.2	Processes and procedures. A Trade Repository must have effective processes and procedures to provide data to relevant authorities in a timely and appropriate manner to enable them to meet their respective regulatory mandates and legal responsibilities.
A2.1.2.Guidance	A Trade Repository should have procedures to facilitate enhanced monitoring, special actions, or official proceedings taken by relevant authorities in relation to data on troubled or failed participants by making relevant information in the Trade Repository available in a timely and effective manner. The provision of data from a Trade Repository to relevant authorities should be supported from a legal, procedural, operational, and technological perspective.

A2.1.3	Information systems. A Trade Repository must have robust information systems that enable it to provide accurate current and historical data. Such data should be provided in a timely manner and in a format that permits it to be easily analysed.
A2.1.3.Guidance	A Trade Repository should collect, store, and provide data to participants, regulatory authorities, and the public in a timely manner and in a format that can facilitate prompt analysis. Data should be made available that permits both comparative and historical analysis of the relevant markets.


